It was an intense time. We had to win
football games, but all the rest was on
my plate as well. I need a break. And
you cannot do that in that business. You
cannot say, "Give me a year. See you
later." So, it begs the question, do you
think you could ever go back and manage
Liverpool again?
>> It's possible. So, what would it take?
Yeah, you change a club, you change the
city, and you arrived at a time when
clubs were in a period of dysfunction to
bring that club back to its glory. And
you do that over and over and over
again. How to win in a very decisive
moment, you have to be the best team.
And to be the best team, everybody has
to buy into that team and walk through
fire together. How do I get people to
walk through fire? I better go back to
the start. Growing up, my mom was very
caring. She loved people and my dad had
expectations. The problem was I was
absolutely useless in most of the
things. Even with football, my teammates
were better than me and I thought I only
can get on that level from the first
until last minute. I was a warrior on
the pitch. But it made me the guy I am
today. And so my team plays a little bit
more like a heavy metal band because you
have 90 minutes and there's no guarantee
to get anything but the only chance to
get something is to give your all. So
you want to have the maximum success.
Don't waste time with holding back. I
want to know why Manchester United
didn't.
>> No, they tried but there are some
reasons in that conversation which I
didn't like.
>> Arie slot coming in after you and didn't
change much.
>> That's super smart. Not changing much
and all of a sudden you win the league
by some distance.
>> But this year Liverpool have spent what
450 odd million. You never had a
transfer window like that.
>> Nobody ever told me that it's possible
that we can spend that.
>> You seem to always be successful. How
does someone succeed you?
>> You want to be able to become the best
team in England? you need to
[Applause]
[Music]
I see messages all the time in the
comment section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because a strange way
you are you're part of our history and
you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you
[Music]
>> Den to understand you and the man and
the anomaly that you went on to be in
your career and still are. What do I
need to understand about your very
earliest context where you came from and
how can you point out to me how that
very early context created the person
you are today and that everybody knows
you to be.
I think we all are who we are because
the environment we we grew up. My dad
was a salesman and my mom came from a
family and my grandpa had a brewery and
she worked there blah blah blah and all
this kind of things. So, but her only
purpose was her kids. She loved me more
than her own life definitely. And my dad
had expectations. He loved me as well,
but he had expectations where my mom
didn't. So, my mom was just happy that I
was there and my dad had always
something um where he was not really
happy with. And all the things my dad
wanted me to do, I love doing. So, he
wanted me to to to to be a sports guy.
each sport, tennis, skiing, football,
that was his life. So he wanted that his
son is good at that and he loved doing
it. If I would have been, I don't know,
sitting at home and and drawing or
whatever, he would every day take me out
and say, "Go outside and and and play
something." But then pretty quick when I
became better, it was never good enough.
And he always So that was the process.
So that's how I was brought up. That's
him. That's definitely
Yeah.
Can I keep these pictures? Of course you
can keep. That's good. That's good
because I have them, but I'm not sure
where. Yeah, exactly.
Good looking guy. Yeah.
>> Was he a tough tough man?
>> Yeah.
I It's not long ago. I never I never got
hit by whatever. Never. Never. Never. He
was just He wanted to to bring the best
out of me. I think that was what he
wanted. Tough in a way. Yeah. how people
who are brought up in in that time
probably but not tough endless that you
thought I do you don't want to have to
do anything with him no I loved him to
bits and he loved me he was very proud
but never never said it and these kind
of things so was he was a good guy a
real good guy but with his son he wanted
him to be ambitious and was a bit afraid
that I might be not ambitious enough so
>> competitive man I hear
>> yeah yeah yeah
>> so reading about stories of um him
racing you on ski slopes and and sprint
races and never letting you win.
>> That's true. Who knows if it was right.
Probably it was right. I I don't know.
It was not nice in a way. When you tell
the story, it's like my god, come on,
let the poor boy win or whatever. But
you had no chance. It's just you stand
on the touch line and you run to the
halfway line. And when you when you look
back over the the course of your career,
are there moments where you have
flashback to lessons that he taught you
or principles or values that he taught
you that you think, gosh, I got that
from my dad? The one skill
I I realized that my dad had without
knowing that time. It was a skill he
could speak publicly. You don't know
that you have that, but I have it. You
today I know it. I I don't care if a
camera is in my face or whatever. I say
what I have to say in that moment um
without being too worried what might
people think about it if I'm convinced
it's right and I I say talking in public
is not a problem it's probably from him
my law for people
unintentionally that's from my mom so
this mix of a very confident and a very
caring very confident dad and very
caring mom
is where I was brought up in the middle
of And you wanted to be a doctor before
before then. So you were aiming to be a
doctor. That didn't work out.
>> Yeah, that's true.
>> Why? Why? Why doctor?
>> No, it was always it was something I
wanted to do. So in all this wonderful
upbringing, it was pretty clear that
money is an issue. Not in a sense that
we didn't have enough. We always had
kind of enough. But I remember
discussions, bad discussions about
money, arguments if you want, who spent
that, who spent that. I was a little
one. I just sat around and listened to
it. But there was a moment in my life
when I when I realized I have to earn a
lot of money that I can sort it all. I
want to earn money to not having this
kind of discussions
with my wife or with the kids or
whatever. So it grew as a as a as a
thought when you are a young man and you
think what could you do with life and
for me it was clear I cannot earn my
money with football because in my mind I
wasn't good enough and then I got
surprised by some people they thought oh
there's something um that could be
interesting.
>> What did they see in you as a football
player? What was it that they they saw
in you as a young man? cuz I've got all
these wonderful photos of you as a young
player and
>> oh my god.
So in my village I was the best player
in my village. So I scored the goals. I
was the fastest. All this kind this
physical talent. I was really fast.
Later on when I studied sport science I
could jump far. I could jump high. All
these kind of things. So it was a
physical talent. I was literally
surprised by the approach from from
professional football clubs. I didn't
think who's coming. So it was like the
question was are you number seven from
the game before? Yeah. Oh come on let's
have a chat. Do you want to come to
Frankfurt? That was the question. It was
before that was 80
>> 87.
>> And you were 20 years old at the time
when you went to Frankfurt.
>> Yeah.
>> Well I mean a lot happens in your 20th
year of life.
>> Yeah.
>> A lot happens.
>> There was a change. Wow. Yeah. I came to
Frankfurt.
I it didn't take long that I met Mark's
mom.
>> Yeah. Your son's mom. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And then um she got
pregnant and um December 88 I became a
father.
>> Were you scared? 20 years old become a
father
>> massively. When I heard she's pregnant I
was I wanted to run away go oh god it's
not me.
So the moment when I when I got aware of
the fact that I will be a dad, I was
really scared. The night 13th December
of December 1988 when Mark was born was
the night when I became an adult and the
night who changed my life
in the right direction. From that moment
on, I was always more an adult than all
the other people in the
in my age group. So they were the
university, they were on parties, I
couldn't go. They went on holiday. I
couldn't I played football, low wages,
third division Germany. Had two other
jobs, one in the morning, one at night.
Um and and playing semi-professional
football. That taught me the discipline.
I didn't have to learn at home because I
had no no jobs to do in the house. So I
got it a bit later but um it made me the
guy I am today.
>> Because of that experience when you
became a manager yourself did that
become a bit of a personal reference
point to understand the individuals that
you were managing? Because if you were
managing a 21-year-old dad versus a
21-year-old that didn't have kids,
did you understand them to be different?
M
>> one is in your, you know, in your own
words, one is potentially a man and an
adult and one doesn't know what that is
yet.
>> Yes, of course. I I I don't, but I say I
like people and I'm super curious.
Everybody has a story to tell, so I want
to hear it.
>> I think I think I asked that question in
part cuz I heard stories that Sir Alex
Ferguson would prefer players who had a
girlfriend
>> or a wife and kids.
>> Yeah.
>> And I was I was wondering if there's any
truth to that, if they have a different
stability or
>> Oh, it's probably Yeah.
There are couple problems you can you
can have a great partner married or not
and then everything is fine. It's the
wrong partner it's not great. You have
no partner not great for some and you
have too many it's not great. So there
are so many things in life. So I haven't
never I never thought about that. I
heard about it at coaches Germany very
successful manager Oreleer I love him to
bits fantastic guy. he had as well, I
think he said it once as well that he
wants um married players because they go
home and stuff like this. Yeah,
that's not that's one part of of the
personality but not the overwhelming or
the the most decisive or whatever. So,
it's like and you need on the football
is a football game. You need the cheeky
the cheeky ones as well. So you need
them the one who the street smart you
need as well they get out of situations
in life and on the pitch stuff like
this. So it's a mix of everything.
That's what I loved about football
teams. I I treated them
let me say 50% of the time completely
the same and 50% what he needs what he
needs what he needs but in front of the
other teammates.
So people, players came to me, why do
you um treat me like that? You would
have ne would never say that to him. No,
because he's from Argentina, grew up
without a window and you are from Munich
and everything was fine. You want me to
treat you like him? Really? To bring all
these people from different areas in the
world together, you cannot expect that
they all tick the same way. It's just
not possible. Growing up in Germany is
obviously different to growing up in
Seneagal. It is different. So, but then
we come together in dressing room and
then everybody says, "So, this is the
rule for all of you." And yeah, be in
time of course for all easy. But then
all the other stuff, come on, calm down.
You want a um a football team
full of different
skill sets, full of different talent,
full of different personality. want that
because that's what you need. That what
makes you unpredictable. But then you
put just one I don't know helmet over it
and say so that's for all of you. That's
how we go. There are moments in the game
where they have to act like that. In all
the other in all the other moments they
have to be themselves. So treat them
like that. This is one of the most
shocking, counterintuitive
um ideas that I've that that I heard
from players with other managers
specifically cuz I've just interviewed
so many of Sar Alex Ferguson's former
players. One of the shocking things they
all said was that he treated people
differently. And to hear you say the
same thing as well, it it it really is
the opposite of what you hear in
business. In business, you hear that you
have to be a consistent leader, that you
have to be consistent, treat people the
same. Um but in the world of football
people like you tell me that's
>> I think I think in business in life it's
the same. So
to lead that's one number one thing you
lead yourself so that's the first one in
the morning you stand up you have to
kick your own but say come on it's not
the greatest day but anyhow we go and
then then the people you lead you need
to understand to do it properly. So now
that means you you you talk to them, you
listen to them, you ask them where are
you from, what's your background, what
are we doing here and there blah blah
and why did you that and stuff like
this. So it means it's already in that
conversation it's clear
he's different to the other guy. It's
not about the rules like punctuality
early in late out not about these kind
of things but how can we get the best
out of people if you treat them all the
same? It's it's crazy. It's in business.
I I don't think it is like that, but
I've never I only worked in this
football business. Or maybe it's just
working here. I cannot see that. For me,
it's super important that you really
pick the individual from where it
stands, not from where you want it to
be. No, actually where it actually is.
>> Can you give me an example that I would
know of two people that you treated
differently and why you made the
decision to treat them differently based
on their origin?
>> So, you have a young player as an
example. So you trend Alexan Allen comes
up to the first team. So and then you
and James Milner is already I don't know
31 or whatever how oldever he was that
time. So you James makes clear first and
foremost that trend doesn't go crazy. So
because he sorts all these kind of
things but there are so many things
where just as an example but James
doesn't have to do this and that because
you know he is doing it anyway. So for
for trend you still have to educate the
boy. this example which you probably
didn't think of but it explains how how
different they are. There are different
age groups. One is 16 or 17 and the
other one is 33. So that shows already
that's not possible.
>> So you are talking about the rules in
football. So everybody has to work hard.
Everybody has to do in my kid everybody
has to defend
the out of the opposition team. So
that's everybody has to buy into that.
There's no no no. I always said if if
you're not Leon Messi, you have to
defend. You have you have to defend. So
because I never had Leo Messi, so they
all had to defend for everybody has to
do that. But then to get there that that
they that they really grow together as a
group
in a group everybody except that they
are different otherwise we are I don't
know an army and and they are different
but it's not I mean just because we wear
the same shirt we have all our own
qualities. So and to that to bring them
to life or let them shine. Yeah. You
have to be to have to get treated in the
right way. And that's what what I loved
to figure out how is that how is that
possible? That was the conversations I
had the conversation with players during
a season. Of course there were football
talks but we had already enough
meetings. The the most important
conversations were the private
conversations.
Why are so when when the play is not
training well
could be could that he just is not ready
for training had a drink last night
didn't sleep enough or you ask so that's
all what you think he looks like he
didn't sleep enough blah blah blah bring
him in ask him what's going on and he
will be surprised most of the time they
either slept enough or didn't sleep
enough for the right reason because
something happened and nobody could
sleep they had no drink blah blah blah
but they lost focus right now because
massive problems at home you without
asking you will never find out so here's
one guy with problem here's another guy
he's flying don't treat them the same
>> so one needs more support and the other
one you need to bring down a little bit
so all these kind that's how you work
with people in the end what you want is
that the job of a leader is to make the
target the aim the final destination
whatever that clear like the sun that
everybody's automatically
going there and you don't have to push
them every day and say by the way
there's the sign that's around there so
that that they know it on the way there
you support them in different in
different ways it's not so important
what I want to say
in a moment of anger or whatever it
happens emotion do that to us especially
around a football game you shout
something did I really say that did I
did I I did that but it's not so
important in a talk conversation with
people they which depend on you, you are
responsible for it's not so important
what you say it's much more important
what they need to hear it's not them
telling them what they want to hear no
what they need to hear to deal with
their situation so that's what
leadership means not just telling them
off for whatever that doesn't work that
doesn't work try to understand why and
that was I I love that part in my job
and I still do that if you want um right
now not with world class players all the
time or coaches, point directors,
whatever. They're all young um younger
than me at least. And um that's how I
understand my role and understood my
role.
>> Was there certain players in your team
that you felt you could be tougher with
and others that you felt you could never
really be tough with because that would
make that would hurt their performance.
I'm reflecting.
>> Yeah. Of of course of course you have
the Sadio Mani and and and Mosala are
two top examples. So
>> in the end there are not a lot of people
who saw it coming. We knew they are
great. We knew they are massive talents.
They have fantastic potential but they
were not who they became later on in
that time. It's not that they came to
Liverpool and said boss just want to
tell you I defend anyway so we don't
have to talk about that. Just explain me
how we do it. And we obviously to to be
successful as a football team you have
to organize a football team to get
stability. To get stability you need to
find a way to defend properly and
together. If you have that based on that
they can start flying then we then let's
talk about the football part. So and now
there are obviously no defenders but we
were famous for our pressing and counter
pressing. I talked a lot to them and it
was and the the way we spoke about it
was just 100% clear. You want to win
more often than not. You want to have
the maximum success. You want to be able
to become the best team in England at
one point. Yeah. Okay then do that. Come
on. So agreement and then from there we
went on but then with years and not
because they changed or whatever here a
little bit less there a little bit less
and I have to decide do I go for them
like I would go for a young boy playing
in that position and say come on
turn run fight jump and take them off in
a moment over no of course not you don't
do that in that moment it's a it's a
story in the newspaper we had this one
argument I think with Mo at Westam at at
the sideline when it didn't start and I
brought him on and he was not happy. The
problem our problems then are always in
public.
>> That was not real big thing but in the
moment we didn't agree definitely.
So um how do you deal with that the next
day I I think I can say um we have a
very good relationship today um even
though on that day it didn't look like
and that's all the things. So you learn
you try to do it the right way. You try
to show the players respect but at one
point it's never enough and you have to
accept that as well because
the players they grow they get bigger
and bigger and bigger and at one point
you hear years later he never spoke to
me whatever another player from wherever
says about a former coach about me about
Mourinho he never spoke to me
I know we spoke a lot we just can't
remember and we didn't speak what you
wanted or we And I didn't tell you what
you wanted to hear. So you can never
make it 100% right. But you can only do
as good as you as it's possible for you.
And that's what I tried all the time to
create a relationship where even when we
had arguments, we always found a way out
as me player and it never um got carried
into the team that I lost respect, they
lost respect for me because I acted that
way. is we always stayed together. We
always find a way that they understood,
okay, it's really important that we get
through this, that they sort it, the
boss sort it with him or the boss sorts
it with us, that we can go from here
again.
>> From a very young age, one of the things
I found really surprising is in as I was
going through all of these football
teams you played in as a young man, it
appeared that you were always the
captain, repeatedly assigned to be the
captain. And I wondered why. What was it
that you were doing from a very young
age that meant all of your coaches back
then asked you to be captain of the
team?
>> I have no clue. The coach I learned the
most of Alfkang Frank um when he came
back to mines, he was at Mines very
successful spell left and then we were
in trouble again. He came back and I was
the captain and we had a very
experienced player from a first division
team coming to mind in the second
division. Lmid was his name. So and Wolf
Gang
Y can we talk? Yeah, of course.
I want to make last the captain. Oh,
yeah. Good. So then you are not captain.
Yeah, I know. So it was exactly like
that. It meant nothing to me. So my role
was not I was a leader in the team. Not
on purpose. I was on the pitch an
aggressive leader which I didn't like.
So heart rate above 140, I lost it very
often in a very very not a good way. So
really aggressive talk,
shouting at everybody and in all that
really was I had to very often I had to
apologize to my teammates.
>> Where did that come from? Because you're
I don't I don't know.
>> There's a real dichotomy with you
because you're such a sweet, kind guy.
You have your mother in you in terms of
the empathy and the love of people, but
then there's this other
>> explosive part.
>> I didn't like it at all. And I was
afraid when I stopped playing that it
that I'd take it over. So I was
emotional. I was had moments where I
lost it with referees and stuff like
that. But generally I'm I was really I'm
I'm a very calm person. So people think
because I'm probably I think I'm a
motivator or whatever. I do get up in
the morning and come in the dressing
room and say come on boys today we go
again. Not at all. I mean it happens
from time to time but not that often. No
I have no explanation for it. If I would
have had an explanation, it was a little
bit I knew I'm not good enough.
Actually, my my teammates were better
than me. And I thought I only can get on
that level if I squeeze everything out
on from an aggressive point of view,
stuff like this. So that was a bit my
explanation because they are so much
better. But if I calm down and want to
play cool football, yeah, I'm out.
>> You eventually become the manager of
mines. Yeah, you're my age when you get
that job and the the former manager's
been sacked. The club have never gotten
to the Bundesliga, the the first
division in Germany.
You don't have experience managing a
club of this size or scale previously.
The chairman comes to you, the owner
comes to you and says they want you to
do the job. Why did they want you to do
the job?
>> Because I didn't find anybody else in
the short in a short period of time. So,
we played Sunday and the next game was
on Wednesday. The idea was just to do
that game. So the the the the whole
story is that Ekat Gson um the manager
at that time he we we lost the game on
Sunday and we had a little camp a crisis
camp let me say because on Wednesday was
another very important game we had to
play. So he took us to a hotel that we
stay there have two good sessions and
then we go for this very very important
and maybe decisive game. And at night we
have a meeting. have a meeting with all
players and he said no gentlemen I want
I want only to ask one question I do you
still trust me are you still behind me I
don't want to answer now I order beer
for all of you I go out half an hour I
come back and you tell me
so he goes out where he just brings the
beer in we sit there look at each other
and think h
and discuss a little bit and I was not
captain that time yeah I was not the
captain so but then it's like at that
uh the decisions. No.
>> What?
>> Yeah. He asked. Why you ask? Yeah. No.
>> So, and it's like we are now we have a
discussion. Yeah. The majority some
people some players didn't speak but the
it was clear if you ask the answer is
no.
>> So, it's like that. I'm not captain but
the captain says global you tell him.
I tell him why. Oh, okay. But he comes
in. He comes in and and I said
actually no and he was shocked. He was
really shocked. I was like he didn't
expect it. It's more like a a little
thing to do and then we say yes we go
through that together something like
that. But we said no.
>> Why?
>> Because he was not the right person. He
was
>> because he we we played bad and we he
I love echard cson but that time for
that team was really he was just not the
right coach that can happen doesn't say
anything about you but we did we wrong
training wrong lineups wrong tactics
wrong everything. So that's how things
go bad in the wrong direction in that
time and we had no that time and we
didn't have to make the decision yeah
who can take over or whatever we just
could say no we we he we could have said
okay I will prove you wrong or whatever
but he ran out and said tomorrow morning
9:00 training
>> okay and then he wanted to do a press
conference where he wanted to tell the
public that he kicks out all the
experienced players and starts now the
rest of the season and plays only the
young kid. Though I was one of the old
players, I was 33. Um, but I didn't know
that that should happen. So, he called
the sporting director. We need a press
conference and I want to talk to them
and tell them we change everything. And
the sporting director says, "Yeah, we do
a press conference, but the subject will
be we sack you."
Okay. So, done. And now they didn't have
a coach. So and then they called me and
for that game can you do it and I said
yeah yeah I can do it and I did it and
we won the game and they didn't find a
manager so we had Sunday and other games
we the first game we won 1 nil the
second game we won 3-1
yeah from the first seven games we won
six and Drew won so and we stayed in the
league pretty comfortably comfortably is
incredible we were a bunch of friends I
they were all my friends and I was their
boss they had to tell me that I changed
from now on in the coach's dressing
room. But what are you doing here?
Here's the coach's That's your office.
Okay. The first night we had a twin
room.
>> Yeah.
>> So, and I got one more game to sleep
there with my friend you and Kney there
in in the same room. And then next day
they all told me, "Yeah, you have you
got your own room." Oh, okay. So, but
all the rest we were a real bunch of of
friends and they respected me from day
from the first second.
>> What was your approach going into that?
you you go from being a player to a
manager of these boys like what what
what's in your mind are you thinking I'm
just going to let them do whatever they
want to do I'm gonna
>> but we had wang very very the best the
best manager we all had when we were at
mines she was exceptional we at mines we
were a football team who lost all the
games when the other team had better
players
I think sounds normal but you know in
football is a way to to win games anyway
we never had that so comes in implements
four in the back, ball orientated
defending. We did nothing else than
that. And we changed overnight
into the one opponent nobody wanted to
play against. We were like machines. We
were like machine. We are not great
football. We were like machines. There
were games our goalkeeper didn't touch
the ball once. We were just defending.
It was new that time. So it was really
for all of them. That means we all
became believer in that. Then Wolfkang
left and none of the other coaches could
do that. None. There was no connection
to the coaches after Wolffrang.
>> Mhm.
>> So I was one of the players who
benefited massively from Wolffkang Frank
and now I arrived and the only thing I
did when I the two sessions I had were
both exactly about that 44 for two ball
orientated movements and we go for MSV
Ducebook that time there were third in
the table. We go for them like nobody
else. But I like these moments. I like
to find a reason why it makes sense that
why we give our absolute all in a moment
like this. Why we don't invest only the
the minimum? Why invest the maximum?
Why we would regret it if we don't do
it? How better life is if we do it? How
much more fun it is if we do it. I love
I love these moments and probably
something like that. I told them and
from that moment on nobody wanted to
play against us anymore. So like we were
like wow animals. It was great. It was a
fantastic time. Same team
um pretty much
uh changed overnight.
>> So you fixed the defensive situation,
the formation and you also told the
players in that dressing room a story of
why we had to give this give everything.
showed the they they wrote us off show
the outside world whatever you can do
most of the time it was real life but
that time so in my meetings later on I
never prepared in a way that I wrote
something down or whatever
our life was preparation what happened
during the week with us in the world but
that was preparation for meeting I never
thought long about it just remembered
that when I when I needed it we spoke I
I told the boys but that time they
needed one person to believe in them and
I did. It was not that I had to convince
myself. I have to tell them now before
that season I told in an interview this
is the best squad Mson ever had. It
would be really difficult for me to play
but good for us that the team is so good
and then we were in an
hopeless situation before I took over.
So I when I became the manager I was the
one who thought this team is incredible.
Nobody knows it yet but we will make
sure in a few weeks they will have a
sense at least.
>> How important did that prove to be this
idea of making sure that the players you
have throughout your career had belief
in themselves?
>> That's all it's all about that. It's not
football. It's life.
You had no when you started your podcast
you people probably told you well that
might be something for you but you were
not sure and then with each little thing
here and there. Oh how many people
listen to your first podcast?
>> Do you remember? No no no I think I read
it somewhere
>> 40
>> something around that was under 100.
Yeah.
>> So it's a start. So it's a start and and
all the rest is if you want history and
that's always in life like that that
it's just give it a chance
of course it makes sense you believe in
yourself but not everybody can do that.
So if but then if you meet somebody who
helps you with that who has a
perspective who can see something in you
yeah then tell tell them why you should
keep it for yourself. Oh my god I think
he's a talent she's a talent whatever
she's good at that he's good at that.
Yeah. Why we don't tell each other? So
where's the problem?
>> Did someone do that for you?
Told you that you should believe in
yourself. They saw something in you.
>> Once I said I never struggled with
confidence, but I don't know why. That's
the truth. But it's true. I never
struggled with confidence. There's no
reason for it. My two best friends in
school were genius. And we sat together
doing exactly the reading the same
books. Did invested the same amount of
time. They had the best A levels in
school and I was far off that. So a
normal reaction would be
I'm a dump obviously
but I never thought that and I don't
really know why why why that happened.
So um I took it how it was. I thought oh
respect you you can remember all these
things. Crazy. I can't
>> but you had lots of players that
struggled with confidence.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I try to create a situation
to make sure that
the player if if they are not confident
yet they are confident but you know
there are moments when they lose it
confidence is like described it once as
a little flower and constantly somebody
steps on it it's like that oh and then
it's growing again and oh now we are
confident again stuff like this in
football it's really difficult because
it's like you cannot play without making
mistakes so if a mistake costs you
confident And
that's a re a real challenge. Um but
what I try to
if you would believe as much in yourself
as I do that will be a start. But as
long as you cannot do that just
trust me. So you are good because I
don't work with not with other I don't
waste time. I don't that's what and it's
true. I don't. So, I really I really see
something and if I see it, I'm patient
enough to work on it. Um much more
patient than the public wants me to be.
But of course, the the idea is that that
one day
I help you learn flying, but in the end,
you have to fly yourself. Obviously, I
cannot I cannot do that for you. That's
what it is football. You have to perform
alone. They cannot look at me. What
shall I do? And that's my job is to
prepare them as good to make it the
education the co the coaching as as wide
as they just pick for me. That's the
idea but not too much as well. It's yeah
it's obviously was a good time in my
life doing all these kind of things. I I
I worked with some of the best
footballers in the world. Um really good
time. Do you sometimes have to lie in
public to protect a player's confidence?
I was wonder I wonder this because you
see managers come out and say, "Oh, he
can't play because he's injured or
whatever." And they they say things, but
I wonder sometimes if managers are
protecting players
because they're struggling or
>> Yes, we protect players. I'm not sure I
ever had to lie to be 100% honest. I
don't know. But we protect players.
Super important. So for me, super
important. Um
he lacks confidence. That's in football
obvious you see that you run oneon-one
on a goalie and you don't make it you
can see it it's because you don't have
confidence that's that's how it is
there's not a lot of other reasons it
can be wind weather ball opponent it's
there but you do it once you do it twice
three time yes that's like that's not
good for the confidence of nobody having
that in training you you have the job is
not to talk too much about to give him a
chance to get confidence back with the
things you do in training that it
doesn't last forever Well, um the one
thing you have to protect players from
is public
>> try to because they are ruthless in
moments. They don't care until something
happens or whatever. Supporters
sometimes I think we were really lucky
with that. We created that bond between
the supporters and the team that they
were not angry disappointed yes but not
angry in a way that I don't want to see
them anymore. So that helped. But of
course you have to protect them
sometimes. You have to protect them
sometimes from themselves as well. So
that's the job.
>> Did you have to involve yourself much
with social media usage of your team
members? And did you did you ever
consider someone's social media usage
when you were considering signing them
to join the club? Cuz I think this now
as a Manchester United fan, I think some
of when some of our players are posting
on social media little indirect messages
and little emojis and commenting things,
I just think, "Oh god, troublemaker.
We had situation that players
text us or or posted something at night
and deleted it, but I still got aware of
it.
>> Mhm.
>> So, not that I read it, but people tell
me, "Oh, last night this and that
happened when 3:00." 3:00.
Okay. What do you say? This and that.
Oh, what I do in these situations, even
deleted, I go in the dressing room and
they all last night this and this
happened. uh got deleted. I know what's
there, but maybe you want to tell
everybody.
>> You would ask him to say in front of
>> Yeah,
>> that's nice. Eh, no. The the thing is I
didn't I don't go for him and tell him
how can you write that or whatever. So I
said, "Come on, I I somebody told me so
I know it." Ah,
not important really, but come on, tell
the whole team what he wanted to say.
and they start
it's not great in that situation that I
don't like to bring people in that but I
think that's a deserved punishment for
something like that but actually the
effect is nobody ever did it again
because nobody wants to be in that
situation in a dressing room sitting
there and be the one who has to explain
something he did last night or whatever
I discussed individual problems if it
was Okay. Quiet in front of the team if
it was important for the team. Yeah.
Come on. Explain why you did that. Why
you went out that long? What happened in
the last two hours?
>> This photo here is of things going well
for you. Yeah. Minds
>> before I had
that to get here. We we that's these are
tears. The tears the year and two years
before were not for the same reason. So
you probably know we didn't get promoted
for a point then a goal. First a goal.
First a point then a goal and then this
happened. That was the first day when it
really went well.
>> So this was the day that you were mind
promoted for the first time in their
history to the Bundesliga.
>> Yeah. But before winning that I I
learned how to lose. This is very
important. I would say I think that's
again to learn
even though you want to be as successful
as somehow possible
you have to accept that from time to
time you lose and then keep then when
you then keep going you have a good
chance if you learn from it a defeat is
a defeat if you don't learn from it if
you learn from it it's a very very
important information and obviously in
football we have a lot of opportunities
to get did and opportunity to learn from
it. But this was the biggest relief
in my life. Not happiness that I was
just that's pure relief. The pressure
was mounting. I was crazy. Not only on
myself, nobody not from outside. I don't
know even know what the outside world
thought. But to make it happen that
year,
that was really special. But it took two
years of
coming close.
>> Yeah.
>> And dealing with the disappointment.
>> True.
>> When I spoke to Jamie Carrager, I I
asked Jamie Carrager actually this
earlier this morning. I said I said to
him, you know, what what was he curious
about with you? And this is actually
what he said. He said there were so many
near misses in your career, whether it
was in the Champions League or I
remember when you were headto-head with
Man City that in that season and you
were one point shy of winning the
league. And his question was, he's
fascinated with how you you were so good
at dealing with the disappointment of
near misses because sometimes near
misses can people. They can turn
them into a downward spiral. It can be
like the plant that got stood on. It can
crush someone's confidence. But it
appears through your career that near
misses ended up being positive forces
for you.
It's not that I knew that always but
what may we spoke about very early but
what made me the person I am these
people of course mom dad
my faith as well so and I I knew
always that I'm not here to get
everything I am here to give everything
so
that doesn't help in a moment when you
when you when you fail for a point
But in the general understanding as a
person of course it helps. So I'm not
surprised that I fail. I don't I don't
think I don't see myself as a constant
winner in my in my mind. I see myself as
a constant tryer. So I don't know
constant winners but there might be some
out there. But I I just can't imagine a
world where it would be like that. all
all the people running around there, the
all the the happy people, they win all
the time. Nobody wins all the time.
Nobody does. So, it's all about dealing
with the things you want and not get and
then you want it more and or or not
anymore or whatever. So, the moments
were not great, but I learned it here.
Doing it that day changed
the the destiny of the club of M. That's
how it is. My destiny, the players
destiny changed everything. So, we
wanted it that hard, but we learned
before we have to try harder. And that's
what I always took. If you don't get the
result you want,
try again and try harder.
>> It was Christian that gave you that job,
wasn't it?
>> Yeah. Mr. Hyel.
>> Christian H Highle. I um I spoke to
Christian Hyel.
He made a
>> His English is very funny, isn't it?
>> Yeah. I've had I've had to I'm going to
translate it for the viewers, but I'm
going to actually play what he said to
you in in German.
>> Oh, of course.
>> So you can hear it.
>> Here we go.
>> Global.
>> Yes, dear Global. We've known each other
for exactly 35 years now. First, we were
both players. Then you subsequently
became my esteemed coach. It all started
in Mitz. You changed an entire club. You
changed an entire city. Back then, we
were promoted to the Bundesliga
together. And today, Mines has been in
the Bundesliga for over 25 years. Back
then, that was actually unimaginable.
You go to Dortmund, change your club,
change an entire city, and win every
title there is to win. You move to
Liverpool and the same thing happens for
the third time. You change your club,
you change your city. I don't think any
coach before you has ever achieved that.
And I'm always asked, "What makes Jurgen
Klopp special?" To this day, he has
simply remained a genuine person, always
authentic, which is incredibly
important. apart from the fact that you
are of course an outstanding expert. I
hope we'll see each other again soon on
our little shared island in Mayorca. Um,
and have a great day and lots of fun
with your podcast.
>> Wow.
>> You know,
>> yeah,
I told you
>> you changed a club. You changed the
city.
>> Yeah.
>> You did that over and over and over
again. You went on and did that again at
Dortmund. um winning a huge range of
awards there at a time when they were
weren't considered to be hopeful and
then you went off to Liverpool and did
the same. And as you I was reading about
how when you traveled to Liverpool there
was 30,000 Liverpool fans watching your
plane fly across
>> um the channel to Liverpool because
they're all very excited. And you
arrived at a time when they were in a a
period of dysfunction, kind of similar
to where Manchester United are now, I
guess.
>> Yeah.
>> And you managed to bring them up from
being a team that were dysfunctional,
hadn't won. There was a lot of pessimism
around the club. I think as a Man United
fan, I was hoping and wondering that if
Liverpool would ever come back, I was
hoping they would never come back again,
but you brought them back annoyingly.
When you when you arrived at Liverpool
that day, you said in that press
conference that you're the normal one. I
remember that.
What what did you observe when you
arrived? What was the culture? What was
the feeling? And what was your first
thought about what you had to do to to
bring that club back to its glory?
>> The feeling I got I had roughly a week
to to think about everything from the
from the first call to the signature. I
think
>> did you have other offers from other
clubs?
>> Oh, in that moment not. But in the
summer I had a lot of offers like before
when I when I finished at at Dortmund.
Um but in that moment it was just
Liverpool but it was kind of destiny
because I didn't want to it was not we
were on a family holiday in Lisa with
the with the two boys and I sitting
there phone goes my agent why is he
calling boys look at my face I say
Liverpool
>> and the both yes the boys
>> yeah and when I looks what what is and
she didn't see my lips when when I spoke
what and realized oh god we start again
before she knew we will we will um go to
Liverpool.
>> Why did your boys want
>> Come on. If you are not a Man United
fan, you know what what Liverpool means
for two people. Um and they they they
Yeah, they loved it and we we fell
instantly in love with that club. So
>> did did Manchester United ever call?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I spoke to them.
So in the year when Alex retired, they
they spoke to me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of
course they were interested at one
point. So I was that time I would have
been interested. I was a young I had a
sensational team at Dortmund. My god. So
somebody they probably thought my what
is he doing there? Um later on I heard
that my players Hando, Adam Lana, James
Melon. So that they flew to to to Real
Madrid when we played the semi-final in
the Champions League to watch us. I
wanted to see what is Dortmund doing. My
god, what a football that is. I I mean,
you can get bigger compliments. It's
really It's really good.
>> I want to know why Manchester United
didn't
>> No, no, no, no. They they tried. I I It
was wrong time, wrong moment for me. I I
was in had a contract at Dortmund. I
wouldn't have left. Not really for for
for nobody in that time. They just
needed a manager, but the manager they
wanted in that case. Now, it was one of
a few options, I think. Um
>> So, it was you that turned down
Manchester United, not Manchester United
turning you down.
>> Yeah. That way. So I Yeah. So
>> we need someone else on negotiations. We
need
>> Yeah. No, no, no. He's not there
anymore. The guy who negotiated that. So
um there are now other people in charge.
It's long ago. Long ago. So
>> why why would a guy like Manchester
United's often known as the biggest club
in the world? Why wouldn't you take that
job? Why didn't you take that job?
>> Manchester United, the great Manchester
United.
>> This is typical. We are now not in
private in a private space. So there are
some reasons what the people in that
conversation told me which I didn't
like.
>> Oh really?
>> So United was that big. We get all the
players we want. We are like we can this
we get him. We get him. We get him. We
get him. And I was sitting there.
So I it was not my project. It didn't
feel like my it was a wrong time but on
top of that it was not my project. What
you
>> I didn't I didn't I didn't want to bring
back I don't know Pogba Paul is a
sensational player my god but these
things don't work usually but these kind
of things or Cristiano god we all know
that he's the best player or together
with Messi the best player in the world
so but bringing back never helps in that
time in 2013 it was obviously not about
Cristiano maybe about Paulo I'm not even
sure when don't get the numbers together
but it was just the idea is we bring the
best players together and then let's go.
>> It wasn't about the football. It was
>> No, not at all. And I sat there and was
like, "Nah, I'm not sure. That's not for
me." So, and then the pure
pure football project
comes up with with Liverpool and the
sensational talk to to Mike Gordon
should that's really important as well
like he was the is the owner. I know
John and Tom of course as well, but Mike
was responsible for us. I wanted after
the talk I want to be his friend. He's
such a good guy. So that's how it
started and in the end yeah was pretty
special. Yeah, I find this fascinating
because as a Manchester United fan, I I
observed from the moment Sir Alex
Ferguson left, we adopted a very
different approach and we brought in all
these massive name players, Di Maria,
Falcao, Ibra, you know, Ibrahimovic,
Pogba, Ronaldo and we we failed and it
it taught me something as an
entrepreneur about what matters more and
I actually when I read through your
philosophy, it's quite clear in your
philosophy that you you prefer attitude
ude and character versus how many
Instagram followers you've got and what
you've done in the past.
>> Yeah, of course.
>> And I wanted to get your take on why you
think the last This is very selfish of
me. The last sort of 15 years at
Manchester United haven't worked out as
an objective observer.
>> I want to I need to know you you can't
no you you're a man that was able to
take teams and make them successful and
we are currently
>> underdogs in many regards because of the
last 15 years. What is it that we've
missed in that time? What have we
overlooked in your view?
>> I know you don't want to hear that.
>> You have a hypothesis, though.
>> I didn't think a second
since I joined Liverpool about what Man
United did, right or wrong. I just
didn't. So, it's like I buy into a
situation. So um I went to Liverpool and
that moment you became our opponent. Not
my enemy but an a very important
opponent, one who is much more fun to
beat than maybe and and and like others
like with Everton. I know so many
Everton fans in Liverpool. We lived
there for 9 years. So I know so many
people have great people. Yeah. So
absolutely. But then you go to the game
and think, "Oh my god, that's something
different." Not I make that up. It's
like that. Um but I really didn't think
but but always in football is like this.
And again like in life you have a
problem and you only try to find a
solution for now knowing
you have two days later another problem
you know it but it's just for now just
find a solution for that problem there's
no mid no long term okay we have to deal
with that for another day or two and
then we can sort it and that means in in
our sense we have to deal with that for
a year or two at United and then we can
make a big step then this in our case
and football case contracts are running
out, player goes anyway, we can sell
him, we can do this, but because you're
in such a rush all the time just because
you want to or have to win the next game
a little bit like that being now in the
situation probably United in the years
when they were not happy they would buy
the time from that time becoming second
and nobody was really happy there and
they think oh remember that in that time
second was not good enough and now you
are not even close to that but that's
not a Man United story for it's just a
football story. It's always like that in
the foot in the world of football. You
win, you're the greatest. You lose, you
know nothing about the game. You draw,
you're boring. So there's not that
you're constant. And it's only about
your own idea what you really want to do
and where you want to go. And everything
in life is about development. We today
you were not the same 10 years ago. I
was not the same 10 years ago. So it
means the time between then and now
counts. So if it counts for me the next
10 years do the same. So it's important
what I do. It's important what I see in
a year two three. So I have to plan my
own life mid and long term as much as I
can do that. And especially the destiny
and and the future of a football club
a player can score a goal can score five
goals will never sort the problems if
you have
>> real problems. And I don't know the
United problems but that Liverpool was
the same. It's not about that on the day
when we when we lost sold Phil Coutinho.
That was not the day when I thought
oh good that we have the money. I lost
the player I wanted to work with for the
next 10 years if you want. It was not
that that I thought and we can invest
it. Yeah we invested it smartly. That's
true. But it's not that we found a
player for the position and sorted that.
That's we had to sort differently but we
found two really solid solid and
becoming world class players with
Allison and Fandai that was for the
future to go from there and now that's
the difference I think
>> I've had so many founders speak to me
and say why didn't this particular ad
that I ran on this platform work for me
maybe the copy wasn't good the creative
wasn't strong but usually the problem is
they're not having the right
conversation because that ad never
reached the right person and if you're
in B2B marketing that is much of the
name. And this is where LinkedIn ads
solves that problem for you. Their
targeting is ridiculously specific. You
can target by job title, seniority,
company size, industry, and even
someone's skill set. And their network
includes over a billion professionals,
about 130 million of them are decision
makers. So, when you use LinkedIn ads,
you're putting your brand in front of
the right people. And LinkedIn ads also
drive the highest B2B return on ad spend
across all ad networks in my experience.
If you want to give them a try, head
over to linkedin.com/diary.
And when you spend $250 on your first
LinkedIn ads campaign, you'll get an
extra $250 credit from me for the next
one. That's linkedin.com/diary.
Terms and conditions apply. Do any of
you remember a conversation I had on
this podcast with anthropologist Daniel
Lieberman? It was one of our most viewed
conversations of all time. And the most
replayed moment in that conversation was
when I talked about this product. These
are what I call barefoot shoes by Vivo
Barefoot, which have significantly
reduced support, which gives my feet the
opportunity that they desperately want
to need to strengthen. We're living in a
comfort crisis and that at all times in
our lives, we're making this trade of
whether to have more comfort now and
therefore more discomfort in the future
or a little bit less comfort now, but to
be stronger and healthier in the future.
And research from Liverpool University
has backed this up. They've shown that
wearing Vivo Barefoot shoes for 6 months
can increase foot strength by up to 60%.
So if you want to start strengthening
your feet and your body, visit
vivarefoot.com/stephven
and you'll get 20% off when you use code
Stevenb20 at checkout. That also comes
with a 100day money back guarantee. What
I love about football is the analogies
to the world I'm in, which is the world
of business, where you can watch a team
like we're seeing, I think, Crystal
Palace at the moment, who objectively
don't have maybe the best players in the
world. They don't have the most money.
>> Bournemouth as well.
>> Bournemouth as well. Yeah. But they're
doing something which is creating this
magic and it's this wonderful narrative
of you don't need to have the most
talent or resources to have the best
outcome. So what is that gap between
like and that's There must be something.
Now look, it's it's a situation the
moment and the situation with Crystal
Palace and Bournemouth is massively
different to the situation for United.
If if Bournemouth wins a game one nil
and doesn't perform particularly well,
you take it and you go on. I'm not sure
you would really find an article in in
in the newspaper about it just winning
and go but United is United each step is
under the under focus and what oh he
didn't they won but he didn't play
great. So they they win a game and then
somebody doesn't perform well. So pick
him out and go for him full throttle.
You think, "Wow." Right? So the coach
has to pick him up again. No, no, it's
all right. Stuff like this. And the next
one and the different completely
different situations. The only problem
you have now
in the time you try to sort your
problems,
all the other clubs improve their
situations.
>> Mhm.
>> So Liverpool has an incredible squad.
Yes. Are they 100% happy right now with
the three defeats? No, probably not. But
incredible squad. Arsenal, incredible
squad. City city, I mean, and they want
to strike back. There's already three
clubs. Chelsea.
>> Mhm.
>> Huh. They in that time when everybody
thought, do they have an overview about
their transfer market? Do they know who
they own and who they loan and stuff
like this? Obviously, somehow it pays
off. So, they have already five clubs.
They are above you. Are you happy with
position six? No. Mhm. Yeah.
>> So, and here's the problem. Should you
be happy theoretically with position
six? Maybe this year and build on that.
So, find um find a reason. Find a reason
to enjoy the situation again. Find a
reason to enjoy a a one nil victory,
two-nil victory at home, whoever against
whoever. Southampton. Try to enjoy that.
Really be happy. go home and not
listening to others who tell you then.
But Southampton, that's what we had
years ago when we decided after a draw
against West Brom
to say thank you to the supporters. We
stand in front of the cop and hold his
other hand and and said thank you. And
then the press conference and Tony P is
uh uh what a what the world we are
living in when Liverpool with the money
they spend celebrated point against West
Brom.
Oh
thank you. Um so but it's it's it's your
choice how you grow together again. And
I think after all the years now without
a lot of good football they need to find
a way to grow together again.
>> I fully believe in Reuben Amarim. Um, I
think he's he's a man that's focused on
culture. And I I like how honest he is
as well. And I think with the team that
they have around them with people like
Jason Wilcox and Inos who I've met um
and Colette and all the others that are
there, I think we're we've never been in
a better place. I personally feel like
that because I just think they're aiming
for more long-term things. They're
aiming at long term.
>> The only problem is you have no clue
about football, but besides that,
>> that's a small problem.
>> So, yeah. Yeah.
>> Good on you. Good on you.
>> I have faith.
>> That's great.
>> Yeah. I don't know if all my friends do,
but but I certainly do. And the only
reason I have faith is because I see the
club aiming at more long-term things now
>> and not buying
>> that's what you have to do.
>> Players because they have loads of
Instagram followers. Yeah.
>> When you got that phone call from
Liverpool and they asked you to come and
join, you said, "Well, the reason you
chose Liverpool is cuz they felt like a
football project versus Manchester
United who seem to be a bit more less
football oriented,
>> but but it's not the same year. Two
years two years before.
>> I'm wondering
what is it about their proposal that
made you think it was a football
project?"
>> Oh, the situation. I knew the club, I
knew the team. So if you look at um on
top of that I didn't think it that way
but when Alex left it was they became
champion in his last year but it was not
that the team was the one you build a
future on. So that's how it is when you
come in as you it's is a bit built to
fail if you want it but I didn't see it
that way in that time it was had other
reasons but if I would have thought
longer about it probably
>> yeah so David Moyes fantastic fantastic
manager um proves every year um couldn't
do the job and since then it's a bit of
a problem so a new team needs time he
was stitched up he was
>> so needs time so Liverpool the team as I
I said when I him. Um, nobody likes the
team. Not even the team likes the team.
Um, I like the team. Do I like the team?
I knew the players. I thought when Bobby
Faminia moved there, I said, "Oh, that's
a smart that's a smart transfer." I
know. I knew Christian Benteke. I love
Debri. I knew John Hennison. I knew Adam
L. I know many plenty players and heard
only kind of good enough thought, well,
let's see. So, I like the team. So,
that's a football team, proper football,
super attitude. I mean just on day one I
could have um um played Hendo Millie and
Adam together in midfield. Maybe I did.
I don't even know my first lineup. But
this it's a proper engine room. It's
smart players. It's people who really
want to want to um perform, want to work
hard and all these kind of things. And
what do you need for a start? I knew
Liverpool was not the same club than
they were before. It's not that I went
into the shiny room. I played there a
year before with Dortmund in a summer in
the preseason and I was
massively disappointed about the
dressing rooms where I remember you have
this pictures in your mind you think oh
my god it's envy
and you walk in and make two steps into
the dressing room and you run against
the wall and you think
kidding is that all where's the rest so
English dressing rooms really really
small in the old stadiums they think oh
my god how can we bring it. It was built
for 11 players and now we come here with
30. So people in that room doesn't help.
So I I knew about the history. I knew
that nobody's happy. I knew that I like
the team.
Um that's a good start.
>> And did they tell you that they were
going to develop the the ground the
stadium? Did they make any promises to
your assurances? Did they tell you
you're going to get
>> They didn't we didn't really speak about
that in the first conversation. That's
that's nothing I need to talk about in
in this kind of conversation. I know my
the job I had in that moment was just to
improve the football team not the club
that I was involved in all the other
stuff happened with time with time just
that be I realize this is my
responsibility now as well um you never
know I don't plan seven 8 n years spells
in a club it just happens it's like I
don't I don't think they could sack me
but I know could happen so I plan from a
specific moment on when I sorted the
first few things then I plan mid and
long term or always did knowing it might
not be for me but um I was I was never
worried about that too much.
>> What was the first first couple of
things you thought you had to change to
get them winning and to get the the
confidence back and to ultimately bring
the city behind you? Was there anything
you thought okay the first thing I'm
going to have to do is get rid of him,
change this?
So they a year before like not in that
season but the the the two years before
they nearly became chairman was a
different team and it was a very
specific way of football offensively. Oh
my god they were ridiculously good
defensively. Yeah lucky a good goalie
there stuff like this was not the same.
So we didn't have the team from that
time we didn't have Suarez. We didn't
have Sterling. We didn't have Yeah. We
had still um Dennis Dur stuff like this
but it was different different team
completely different I I arrived there I
had five strikers
>> there was
Chris Maker Denny Ings Dorigi Bobby
Firmino Daniel Sto five strikers and I
want to play one striker system
how do we deal with that but it was it
was fine and there was so much quality
doesn't really solve it so the first
thing I had to sort is like to organize
them so find a way to make sure that
they understand that we have chance to
win the next football game. We have to
do a couple of things for that. But
Tottenham, three days time to train.
Yeah. Jump in their face and let's see
what what what we get for it. So that's
it's not organized. It's like we started
with an organized chaos. So I gave them
a few ideas about where we have to where
we want to put them under pressure and
in that moment now do it. And afterwards
we work we talk about it how it worked
out because there was no time to train.
We anyway we had no time. the week after
we played European League I think in the
midweek and then you play again and no
it's like you are in a rush and a
coaching career with all the games you
have to play if you really want to a top
team especially if you really want to
develop a style of football you are set
up to fail because it's like you have no
time in the preseason there's no their
players are everywhere playing big
tournaments blah blah blah and then you
come two weeks before the season starts
into your camp okay so let's try let's
go from here. Then you play top teams
play every 3 days from a specific date
on. We obviously we lost a lot of
finals. That means we played a lot of
finals. That means we played all the
games until the end of the season, which
is a lot. So there's no really time. So
to train and really develop things. So
you have to use each little moment to
implement a specific idea we all can buy
into. And that's what we did. I loved
our first game against Tottenham.
Simon Mino they had to make a good few
good really good saves but they had to
do as well and that year Tottenham was
really strong there. We came second
behind Leicester I think that was that
season and that's a start.
>> What are those little ideas that you
started to implement one by one?
>> So many if we don't have time to change
football.
What do you mean? We are all not genius
and we cannot go there and show them a
little bit. Pass the ball here, pass the
ball there and if you pass the ball back
again, you can shoot on your alone in
front of the goal. That doesn't work
like that. So I I'm 100% convinced that
you have to
make sure that you are stable and if
you're stable that means that the other
team whatever they try it's not easy for
them to get through and shoot just
finish. I don't like that. So if you can
avoid that do it because we are people
but we are now realized a few times it's
not easy that you if they have five six
chances after each other opportunities
after each other then it's like that you
you don't feel great nobody plays his
best football if each attack of the
opponent ends in the arms of your goalie
that just doesn't work so how can we do
that in stability is to organize a team
that's number one two and three on the
to-do list of a successful manager and
that's what I did we organize and then
be told them to run their socks off. If
you people have to sh you have to show
the people that you want to change
something, you have to show the people
that you want to achieve something. How
we can tell I can tell them but the end
you have to show them. So run and and
they went for it and I I loved it so
much. They loved it so much. It's easy.
They all top fit. They want to run. So
just show them which direction and it
goes. And then we developed step by step
our own way of football. Brought players
in step by step. Um but we got we got
stable pretty quickly. Not as much as we
wanted. I think we became sixth,
seventh, eight. I I don't even know.
First season, two finals. Great. Lost
both. Not great. Um but then we we knew
each other and we loved working together
with this group. Brought in super
players, really super super players,
super character super players
and stick together. And I mean what can
you do? We we lost it. We lost the
European League final in Basel.
How it always is, there's a party after
the game. So you cannot organize a
party, but you all know if you lose, who
wants to go to the party? So I was a new
manager. Yes. Not that new anymore. 7 8
months in or so. And I realized some
players under there, but was in a team
hotel. So I told I called them, told
them all here. Come on, come downstairs.
Was really
I tell you what this was only the start.
We only are together in six, seven
months. This is not the last final we
played. This is the first final we
played. Okay, we lost the car boy. It's
not important. The first international
final we lost. No problem. We go again.
And I went on stay on the dance floor.
It was a dance floor. And I said all
coming when we saying we are Liverpool.
I mean, I had um had a few parties after
finals we lost and I always thought I
don't waste time at all on not being
happy about what we achieved over the
whole year because qualifying for a
final is a real achievement. Losing it
is not great, but until then everything
was fine and I never accepted that we
ignore the rest. So we have a party
and then we went on to achieve
new things and we need a bit of time
obviously but it was okay
>> and this goes back to the point earlier
about controlling the mindset and the
psychology after you lose to make sure
that you don't get depressed and
>> if you don't learn from a defeat it's a
real defeat if you learn from it it's
just it's a very very important
information and that's how I always
understood understood it I had enough
opportunities to learn. Really, how I
said I lost more Champions League finals
than most people play. It's not a great
thing to say. It's the truth. Anyway,
>> you're known for what they call heavy
metal football.
>> Yeah, but that's Yeah, I know.
>> You like that phrase.
And do you know why
>> I said a lot of things, but it's like
they that I said that it was not in my
mind that I thought you want to play
heavy metal football. They asked me
about Asen Mena on the comparison and
they they think we are similar in a way
and I thought what
and I know so come on don't be
disrespectful to our I'm a young baba
man from somewhere um but if you want to
compare us then I'm not sure that's
possible because Azen's football is
rather like an orchestra and my team
plays a little bit more like a heavy
metal band but that was the first day
when I thought about my team I got heavy
metal band but it.
>> But it's true.
>> Yes, somehow.
>> It is true. And I know that more than
anyone as a Manchester United fan
watching.
>> I'd hate playing your football teams
because they they ran so much. They were
so passionate. They never let up. They
would they could always win in the last
minute and the intensity was you were
just anxious as a as a football fan
watching the games because it was so
fullon and it was overwhel. It's almost
overwhelming emotionally. And I I
remember through your era you would win
sometimes you'd win games by seven.
You'd score seven goals, five goals.
Every week when I pull up my phone to
check the scores that week, oh,
Liverpool have scored five again. Oh,
they've scored seven again. They've
scored six again. Sometimes you would
concede three,
>> but you it was it was it was crazy how
high intensity the way you played
football was.
>> Don't waste time with holding back. I I
don't understand it. We have nothing to
do 90 minutes, 95 minutes, whatever. I
don't. We had to learn. I had to learn
to to manage games
inside me until the last date was like
come on come on try but then I had to I
I mean I grow up and I got more mature
and stuff like this it was like okay
come on hold the ball control the ball
all the things you you at one point you
do you you learn some at any time on
your on your journey and that's that's
how it is and I love the game so much
and could play it not that good that I
was so happy that I could work with
these outstanding players. I couldn't so
I I loved it. I enjoyed it so much
seeing them doing what they're doing. I
was I was number one supporter of my
team teams wherever I was. I loved what
they did. So that's what I I I carried
through the week. I didn't tell them. I
I told them I want to be your friend,
but don't I cannot be your best friend
because I'm the one who tells you off
very often and doesn't tell you this is
not right. This is not right. But then
but the feeling the general feeling was
I love them in my mind. My ex- players I
love them all and some of them don't
love back. Let me say like that probably
for some reasons or whatever but that
doesn't mean anything to me. I love my
clubs.
>> Do you think it's important
how you win? Because you you know this
heavy metal high intensity oh you win
>> was great for the fans. They they love
watching three four five six seven they
love watching that stuff. Do you think
that matters or do you think it's just
about getting the three points?
>> Just say we didn't win that often. 5 nil
7.
>> It felt like it.
>> It felt like it was
>> and against United we did.
>> Yeah. No. Uh you can cut it out. Um
no, it's Yeah, of course it's important.
So if you have your backpack going to
stadium as a player, if you have your
boots and if you have wear shirt, don't
waste time with anything than giving you
all. There's no guarantee to get
anything but the only chance to get
something. So give your all from the
first until last minute. You have to
understand this game is only that fun
for us because all the people are
watching it. That's why we earn the
money. I mean it. I know that's what
people want to hear. But we earn the
money because everybody's interested in
it. Everybody wants to see it, knows
about it, reads everything about it, all
these kind of things. And for that with
all the stories around the only thing we
really have to deliver is give your
absolute all in a game like that.
Whatever whichever game is there 5:30,
2:30, 3:30, whenever the game starts,
give your absolute all.
>> But why not just 1 nil and defense and
boring and pass it around and
>> that happens. That happens in games. You
are you realize okay we score a goal but
today is not our days. Come on let's get
it over the line. that happens but it
cannot be the target or the purpose for
the next game again let's do it like
that not for there are clubs if you own
the only
realistic target is to stay in the
league a wonder is a wonderful result
but we talk about a club like Liverpool
we are we were are bigger than that you
have to win each football game when you
are manager of Liverpool that's what
people that's not that before the season
anybody thinks oh 38 eight games. Oh, it
makes sense. Oo, more than 100 a nobody
had ever. So, it's not like that. But
still, each defeat and each draw is
like, how could that happen? It's like
and that's why you have to to play in a
specific way. Not all clubs have the
same things to do, but the top clubs,
they have to win all the games. And when
you have the chance, you win them clear.
You win them with a proper result, stuff
like this. You have to make the people
enjoy the football you play. And I love
to do that. I I loved it. I honestly
it's like the the games we played the
the the the results we we had were just
incredible. It's just amazing. Not all
of them. And I love the one nils as much
as I do all the others. The Champions
League final was the worst the worst
final of all the four my teams played.
But we won it. Would I take would I
change say okay let's the other three as
well a little bit. The performance in
other games was really good but we lost.
So here we are. Yeah, it was not
fantastic but we won. So all fine. It's
about the result but if you have a
result and another result it has to lead
to really good football at one point as
good as possible for your specific team.
You want to stay in the league do it
with good football. You want to qualify
for Europe do it with good football
because we are there for the people. We
don't it's not there that we just go
home and people think oh it's
unwatchable I'm not sure I come next
week again that's not that's not fair
try to play the game is really is is
really cool game so let's make sure that
everybody sees it
>> and what is the Liverpool way what is
inherent in when you come to Liverpool
and you are the manager or you are a
player what is the thing that you have
to do that's specific to Liverpool in
order to be successful
>> you have to understand the community and
with the community as a city community
as a bigger community around the world
and there are so many people and this
club went through a lot not as the only
club in the world but come on for that
moment we just think about ourself went
through a lot the reaction of to these
situations was always exceptional to be
100% honest and that's what you have to
understand what you have to learn that
that mean this club means more to the
people than just football so that you
you have to understand and that's why
what we do is more important than it
maybe is somewhere where else that
that's the responsibility responsibility
we always took and understood 100% our
boy the players understood to play for
Liverpool is not just a club where you
play during your career it's the club
and it's something you will definitely
remember for life so that we try we try
to make sure that the boys understood
if we give our absolute everything now
we meet in 10 15 years look back and we
I think it was the best we could have
done. The absolute best we could have
done. I think that's how you the my view
on life is as well. All the other stuff
is just sorting the problem in front of
you.
>> Mhm.
>> There's something we have to sort. But
when you saw you think about what's the
effect for for for the rest and that's
what some people some clubs maybe don't
want to see because the pressure is too
big just to make sure okay tomorrow at
least they will not write we have no
clue tomorrow at least they will say
they found a solution and then we can
think about um the next day or whatever.
How does how does someone I don't know
how someone succeed succeeds you because
you have such a big aura. Are you aware
that you have a big aura?
>> Don't know if anybody has the awareness
of that. I heard about it but I doesn't
that don't know what it means 100% to be
honest but I see it with other people.
>> An energy when you you arrive it's the
passion. It's the ability to talk. It's
the ability to inspire people. it is,
you know, has an impact on the rival
team you're playing because they go
clocks here and big personality, big
charisma.
So, Anie Slaugh coming in after you,
he's he doesn't appear to be as have the
same size of an aura. And I I don't
know. I just think big big shoes to fill
in terms of your aura.
>> I have to go to the toilet.
>> I bet you do.
>> Oh, really?
>> Okay. Okay.
Okay, that's good.
>> Big shoes.
Big shoes. I would not want to fill such
shoes. A couple of things. First and
foremost, I uh I thought I have
to say what I had to say when I when I
um announced my exit, if you want, my
retirement, whatever you want to call
it, at the time. And people judge that
wrong moment blah blah blah whatever you
cannot change that it was fine the
feeling was I have to say that then we
have to finish the season as good as
somehow possible in idle world you win
something we couldn't do that for
whatever reason and then you have to
make sure because that's still something
you have to do you have to try
to make it as easy as somehow possible
for the guy who's coming after you what
I tried as well because I wanted
them all to do do incredibly well.
And also if somebody is not doing it
that way, you it's a first
the first hint you can get that maybe he
wants the next guy not to do it well.
Every shouting, oh my god, he did that,
he did that, he did that. And I don't
need that. I want Liverpool to do well.
I want Liverpool to win. But they did.
So what I liked a lot about Arnold that
Arnold didn't hesitate. But you said,
"No, I don't want to go in these shoes."
A didn't have that problem. He thought,
"Okay, that's a that's a great club.
That's a great team." And he's right. It
was a fantastic It's a fantastic club
and it's a fantastic team. And he
stepped into that. We had a lot of
contact after that. He was super
It's a super super good guy. Um, my god,
what a team. Wow. Thanks a lot. Blah
blah blah. All these kind of things. And
yeah and he made the best he got the
best out of this team and they they
became champion in incredible manner to
be honest. So and I'm really really
happy about that. So that's all that's
all you you is it it all about it shows
again it's all about how you see it. You
can see you step into my footsteps how
you called it.
>> Mhm.
>> Or you take over a fantastic football
team. It was a brilliant I mean my my
best friend's a Liverpool fan and he
said before you left actually he said
this is the best squad Liverpool have
ever had.
>> Yeah.
>> Um Anie has inherited that squad which
is considered to be the best squad by
many people that Liverpool have ever
had.
>> And in that first year didn't really
change much. There wasn't really there
wasn't any big signings coming. I
actually heard from one of the the
players in Liverpool that them say to a
really good friend of mine that the best
thing Arie had done was actually in that
first year don't change much don't come
in and try and radically change things
and
>> that's what Anna slot would say himself
probably I think he said it that's super
smart so it's not about what Anna wants
to show the world what he can do it's
about how to get the best out of this
team and that's exactly what he did not
changing much means he changed a little
bit we became third a year before So
there's not a lot you have to change,
but a few decisive things you have to
change and all of a sudden you win the
league by some distance. So that's what
it is. Not that he has to put his new
own stamp. This team was was was good in
in a lot of ways, but we didn't win the
year before. So and that's what he what
his what his um job was. And he did that
in an incredible impressive manner. So
and that's all you want. And you need
people who have the confidence to do
these kind of things because um doesn't
make sense if you have a a manager who
is not 100% sure about the things he
wants to do and I want us to play like
this or if that's not possible I want to
play like this or I want to but we maybe
completely different that doesn't work.
Being a football manager is already a
challenge with all the different things
you have to do. Being a football manager
in in in such a competitive league like
a Premier League is a real challenge.
Being a football manager in the world we
are living in with media,
social media and all these kind of
things. It's an incredible challenge.
Believe me, you you have no clue what's
coming up the next day. You think, "Oh
my god, where's that coming from?
Who was that? Oh, my player. You read a
story, whatever, and all of a sudden you
think,
oh, from a problem, it turns into your
problem and a and a wing. So, sort that
and all the rest as well. So, you need
this kind of I love that about Arnet
that he came in and and took over and he
knew he got a good team. Yes, it was.
Um, and did a perfect job.
I mean in terms of making changes this
year you Liverpool have spent what 450
odd million which is a crazy number. I
mean the bro I think he broken the
transfer record in various positions
several times with warts and um with
ESAC now as well. So change has arrived.
These are these are new people coming in
with their their own ideologies from
their previous clubs. They've all
arrived at once. A lot of new faces at
once. Is this not now where the
challenge begins? because this is this
is going to become Anie's team now.
>> Yeah, but that's not a problem. That's
just completely normal. That doesn't
mean exactly that there was a lot of
change. I mean,
no team in the by the way, it's 450 or
whatever million. I don't know the exact
numbers, but they they earned a lot of
money as well. Um, and change always has
an impact and change always needs time
and don't but people talk then about
yeah, but this if no let's start like
that. He keeps this exactly same team
like us. Yes, Darin Yun is still there.
Luis Diaz is still there as an example.
So they start playing but they have
problems. Say yeah change and we needed
change. So now they're not there
anymore. The new guys are there and they
are good really really good players.
It's not working out. Yeah, why why it's
not working? Because development needs
time then nobody can change that and
people need to find uh need to adapt to
situation need adapt to things and that
all these kind of things. So it's all
it's all good. It's all in place. What
you have at Liverpool this year has to
be in the competition in the decisive
moments and then they have to be ready
to go for it. There's no guarantee that
you then will win it again. That doesn't
happen just like this. You cannot be
champion, spend money and be champion
again. The other teams don't sleep.
That's how it is. And to become
champion, you need luck in moments here
and there. That's how it is. Nobody
wants to hear that.
crossbar
over the line, not over the line, all
these kind of things. It can go in your
direction or in the other direction. So,
it's all fine. And we discuss the
situation now like it's a h they
struggle. Surprise. Yeah. We we take we
take the money and throw it against
them. 450 million. Yeah. But they earned
200 odd million as well. So it's all
fine if you're with Liverpool and only
these people are really that's the only
only people who matter if you are with
Liverpool. Yeah, you trust them and they
do the right they did the right stuff.
They do the right things. So work on it
and become the best football team this
team can be.
>> You never had a transfer window like
that where you spent that much money and
>> No, we built we built three stands and
and a training ground.
>> Yeah, exactly. And and I remember the
press conference I think when you were
referring to City's ability to spend
money.
>> I had no clue that this is possible.
>> Nobody nobody ever told me that it's
possible that we can that we can spend
like that my last year Liverpool. So we
obviously
so the Adidas deal the new stadium all
these kind of things. Yeah they earn
more money but it was never no never
ever I I could have asked for the amount
of money but that's not a problem that
time it was not there. No problem at
all. really not. And
I love the fact that we were as
successful as we were and
build new stands and build a training
ground because we talk now about a
transfer window in the way you want to
talk about it, spend a lot of money. Um,
but there's no discussion about the
stance and no discussion about the
training ground. They are second to
none. The training ground, the stands
are wonderful. So, and and at the same
place where Enfield is, they could build
pretty much a new stadium without
leaving the old one. So, that's a
fantastic story and that will stay
forever. Maybe at one point they decide
the cop could be even for more people or
whatever. I don't know if that ever will
happen, but you could do stuff there.
And that's what I love about this. And I
think I really want as much as I can.
And it's not my first target because I
have to win football games with my team,
but I want that a club benefits from the
time we were together after we left. I
want that.
>> This might be quite a naive observation,
but in the time when you were at
Liverpool, my assessment of Liverpool
was you never you didn't necessarily
have the world's most famous starting 11
team, but you could beat anybody. Mhm.
>> So, you know, when you brought in
Milner, who was at City before, and when
you brought in these other players, I
would see I'd be like, why why are they
signing him? He's not. But then when
they'd play for Liverpool, they would be
unbelievable players, and you could be
anybody. So, there was almost this
culture at Liverpool, which which I
observed, where you didn't necessarily
go for Galactico players. You weren't
trying to get Ronaldo or Messi. You were
going for sort of these players that had
character and and a culture fit. And
ultimately that meant that you know you
at times it looked like you were playing
with 12 men. And so this new this
transfer window that I've just observed
where you you have gone for the very
very best names the you know some of the
best players on planet earth that were
number one choices for Real Madrid and
the biggest clubs on earth. I almost
don't recognize Liverpool it moving like
that in a window.
>> Yeah. There's part of me that I'm like,
well, hopefully that this is their Falca
Di Maria moment, Ronaldo moment where
they where they bought big players but
they didn't think of culture. I'm
praying.
>> Yeah, you wish.
I wish
>> that's the difference. Your wish
is incredible striker. Incredible
striker. Floss you all will eat your
words if you have the wrong use the
wrong words or is an incredible talent.
Incredible player. Um yeah, just
offensive players. It's a really really
really good well you
squat.
If the young center half is not getting
injured, it's a perfect squad. Now he's
injured. That doesn't help. Then you
might be a majority on the center half
position. Besides that, it's a perfect
squad. Two super left backs, really
super right back. So it's it's just a
really good football. That's how you set
a team up. And now you have to deal with
the situation. They all think they have
to start the game but that's the normal
job. It's not that difficult or that's
the normal job. You have this discussion
who will start a week or two in a then
third week one is injured and you are
happy that the other can start. So
that's that's the the world a football
manager is living in. So we have we
don't have to to worry about
what's that the I'm really interested.
So you don't have to worry about
Liverpool. They will be fine. This was
the just the net spend graph of the
different clubs
um
while you were while you were there. And
it's quite clear that you um you weren't
spending the same as your rivals during
your time. And a lot of the fans in the
media speculated that the owners, the
Fenway Sports Group, just weren't giving
you the money, but you were still
getting the results, which is pretty
>> No, no, no. So, yeah. What's the What's
the public perception that I didn't ask
for the money? That's probably not
right. I we had these conversations but
I didn't ask in a way if you don't get
it
we can do it. It's not my job to think
about how much we can squeeze out of
whatever area. I was I I felt massively
respond my my my idea was always with
the the boys we have
become the best team you can be and
you're right when you said um we were
maybe not the best team I think there
was a period when
we played football you could have
thought that's maybe the best played by
the best team I don't know exactly
between 18 and 20 there was a pretty
long spell um but We always and it was
the idea. We always were able to beat
the best team. And that was the idea
because that's a constant thing. The
next best, the next best, we can beat
you, we can beat you, be the best, you
know, you are the one everybody wants to
beat. I love that. So that's net spend
and stuff like this. I was never too
worried about. We had all these
conversations. Yeah. I I was I was happy
with how it was. I couldn't have
discussions with people. No, I cannot
decide how much money we spend. It's not
just not possible and slot cannot decide
how much money Liverpool spend. That's
how it is. You do there are other people
who decide that and if you have the
money then you spend for really good
players what Liverpool did this year.
And I think it was it was the right
thing to do. And
I'm pretty sure
one specific moment changed the whole
transfer window.
Yeah. That was the the saddest day of of
last year. Um, and how do you how do you
replace somebody like Joo?
It's not about the player itself. It's
about the the the guy he was.
It was he was good with absolutely
everybody. Absolutely everybody. his he
arrived he had no real it was I think he
was a bit surprised that we approached
him that we asked for him then he came
and then we he delivered from day one I
remember still when I saw him the first
time playing for wolves he saidoo what's
that when I went to the you always hear
these stories when people tell me and
it's it's true that Malah they had to
convince me and stuff like this not
convinced that I take him but it was
like there were other players as well
and Mo was one of the others and then we
we decided all together for Mo but fine
but this nobody came to me and told me
come on let's have a look at at yoga I
saw him and I said please give me more
material I have to see him and that's
and he he he he excelled all the
expectations as as a guy super smart
super super teammate and now he sits in
a dressing room and I I cannot imagine
right now the dressing room without him
being there that's as so hard it's so
hard I still cannot speak properly about
it it's it's really like that. It was an
incredible shock and that's for the boys
as well and and I don't we could think
we don't speak about it because
otherwise some bad journalists make a
story of it what I said about him and
how it what it means. Nobody at
Liverpool will ever use it as an excuse
but it is the situation you walk every
day in this room where he was
omniresent.
He was
can you imagine he to to to talk about
Timmy he he was so close with ch with
James Milner they are not the same age
group they're nothing the same it's just
he was so but on the other side very
close with cost simas that's like mount
and moon and Mars so that's
that was him and dealing with that as a
per on a personal level not easy
impossible and now as a club take all
the the emotional stuff out and think
How do we replace him? And you have to
think about that. Wow, that's difficult.
Impossible, I would say. And now we
charge a transfer window where they buy
the players. There was not the plan. I'm
pretty sure the two that he had to get
to um
replaced.
>> Do you remember where you were when you
heard the news?
>> Yeah.
I got a message in the morning. Boss, I
have bad news. And then I got and I got
a message from a from a friend from
Liverpool and
and I I I couldn't believe it. I I just
it was not possible. I heard it and I
know what it means but I couldn't
believe it.
the whole story. I saw all the pictures
obviously from the wedding and all the
boys were there and and stuff like that
and it was so was only before that and
um
I know exactly where I was. I was I was
exactly how long I sat there without
speaking a word. So
it it is it is it is a family member. is
exactly like that.
So look, it's it's it's really like
that. You have it's it's an example
for the things you have to deal with
without knowing at all. You cannot be
prepared to deal with things like that.
And today we we talk about the the
transfer window in the name if you want
of Liverpool that would have looked
completely different. Yeah. So you have
to sort the things you did never
expected that you have to think about.
Everybody wanted this boy to play the
next
10 years at Liverpool. Allound player,
all positions can play football smart.
On July the 3rd, 2025, Diego was killed
in a car crash alongside his brother in
Spain. Um I think re just just before
then he had got married to his partner
and he had several beautiful children.
He he said of you he said the first time
you and him met he just felt your
presence. He said I think that's one of
his main characteristics the way you can
you can just feel him only with his
presence.
And Diego went on to be incredibly
successful under your leadership at
Liverpool.
>> Yeah
that's true. Yeah. same. I could say the
same. I could say the same about him. I
was as impressed
with his presence. Very, very special.
Very special
young man, I have to say.
>> How much of a role do does a manager
like you play in the transfer window?
This is something that's always
speculated by the fans.
>> Do you remember the first when I came
and told me about a transfer committee?
I never had they they told me that the
journalist asked me yeah because they
implemented a transfer committee because
they didn't want to have the man that
the manager is that decisive in a
transfer window. Obviously before me
there was some issues.
>> Yeah.
>> So no problem with that. I can discuss
with everyone as long as no player signs
for the club I don't want. I'm used to
not getting all the players I want.
That's completely normal. It's not up to
the coaches. We say we need want that
player and I say yeah it's too
expensive. They can ask again, sorry,
can we make it happen? Um, and knowing
they all try through everything to get
the right price and get the player in.
You cannot do anything with that that
anybody in a club would bring in a
player. You don't you don't agree on
that. That's that that's not possible.
But it's very very normal in the
football code manager life that you
don't get all the players you want. So
no problem with that. As long as the
transfer window is open, you try to
create build the best possible squad. On
the day after the transfer window, you
have the best possible squad, whichever
transfers you made, and that's the way
you go into the rest of the season.
Michael Edwards left during your tenure.
He was sort of one of the key people
that that was responsible for looking
for players and and signing them, and
he's back now.
So first and foremost before I don't
want to say anything else because I
really have a really good relationship
my is absolutely great in what he's
doing. Um but it was not on one day his
job alone to bring in players. There
were a lot of other Julian board Ian
Graham um so many people they were
involved in in in Barry Hunter all these
kind of things were involved in these
kind of things. It was a process. We
were really we were really close
together. It's not one sitting there and
being the genius and having producing
ideas and you think oh my god
>> he's available I didn't even know him
he's so like we know we know football
players it's like negotiating finding
the right moment to sell finding the
right moment to buy that's a sporting
director's job what he was before and
now is I don't even know exactly the
role
>> something in a holding company doing
across the board So Richard Hughes is
now there doing an incredible job. Um so
these kind of things it's it's it's
really all in idle world. So like people
from outside are idolizing sometimes
people like that definitely some of them
with me and they do with Michael but
Michael never did a job alone. I never
did a job alone. Um it was always like a
a really good Yeah. They worked together
just really well. We didn't have a lot
of disagreements where you think bof
where is that coming from? Why you want
him? It's a process and football team is
an open book. Everybody can read it
every day. So if you want to add
something it should not be a surprise to
everybody and think huh where's that
idea coming from? You think we need a
left back. Why? We have already four.
That doesn't happen. you are it's a work
on progress all the time during a season
but the transfer windows
it clash obviously and English people in
professional football enjoy the day a
bit more than probably in other
countries um so that's what I didn't get
that to a full extent but um I learned
um a lot about the excitement of a good
transfer window
>> did you always get on with them
>> yeah I I would say 100% and Michael
definitely and Richard, I don't know. We
spoke quite a few times after um after I
left. Um so I like him. So and I think
they did an inc they did an incredible
job honestly
>> cuz you became bigger than the coach.
You you became such a huge I mean you
still are such a huge figure in the in
the city. I mean my my assistant who's
been with me, my PA has been with me for
10 years. She's from Liverpool and she
I'm probably going to embarrass her now,
but you're like the king to her. Not
even in Liverpool. You're the king
globally
because we did that. So if I was if I
was a Michael Edwards or someone else at
the club and I was trying to that you
have you had ultimate power kind of like
Sir Alex Ferguson he became
you know he was everything. He is the st
he's on the stadium. He is the club. So
I I I always wondered how anyone would
be able to overturn your opinion or
argue with you when you are the city.
You're like you're the great Jurgen Klo.
But that's the outside world. Come on.
I'm not I'm not an idiot. I don't I
don't sit there and I always said I need
other people to understand things. It's
like I my own opin opinion. I know
already. I know the morning I get up I
know my opinion. So come on. How can you
get a better view on it on things?
That's how it is. It's just by
discussing with people. Yes. The final
decision I have to make and I have no
problem with that. But for that I need
all people being really involved. And if
you want to have an argument, have an
argument. In the end, I will make the
decisions. Absolutely no problem. Did we
have argument? Maybe yes. I don't
remember them. But it's not important
because it's just in the end. It's it's
about the outcome. It's about what is
best for the club. And I never had a
problem with that. I never thought they
all have to please me. So I realized
how famous I am after I left Liverpool.
>> So I have no clue. I was never in
Liverpool out there on on the bus. It's
normal that the people cheer because we
there everybody is they cheer for
everybody. So I realized how good I was
as a coach since I'm not in the job
anymore. So because I thought what I can
do everybody can do. I realized maybe
not. So it's it's 100% the truth because
in the job you just do try to sort every
day the things in front of you. That's
what you try.
>> Can I ask you about Nunes? He he didn't
seem very happy on your last your last
day.
>> Darwin
>> Darwin.
>> Yeah. We had an absolutely good
relationship as good as can be with a
striker is not scoring as often as he
wants as the people want and as I think
he could have and with a striker who
didn't play as often as definitely he
wants. So how can you have a fantastic
relationship is would it be if he would
would I don't I didn't see that picture.
I heard about it. If he would have stand
there and be the number one and jumping
after me, crying his eyes out and and
and hugging me for 10 minutes, I was
okay. What's going on here? It's
completely normal situation. I cannot
My first concern cannot be to please
everybody. It's just not possible. It's
not possible in that job. You have easy
the first problem starts with 25
players, 11 starting positions. So sorry
more players are not happy than you make
happy. That's that's already where it
starts the problem. So now you have to
get through this. And I'm pretty sure he
had super moments at Liverpool. We had
super moments together. And in my last
day, if I would have been him, I would
have thought as well, okay, come on, the
next one is a new chance for me because
players do that. If if it's if it goes
really well for them, it's not that they
think to the coach. If it's not going
well, they think it's okay. He doesn't
bring me often enough. It's not my
fault. Blah blah blah. All this kind of
we are humans. We are all the same.
Though it's not that they are special in
that moment. And some of them think,
yeah, I have to do more. I have to do
more for the week one, week two, week
three. And I think now I did three weeks
more. It's still not pick is not picking
me. So it's this it's it's a bit you
cannot have always harmony and and and
flowers and all these kind of things.
It's a competitive environment and you
need to perform to get what you think
you deserve.
>> When did you decide did you decide that
you wanted to sign Darwin? How was that?
How did that decision?
>> You decide exactly like before we
decided it all to all together involved
in that in that process and yes that's
how it is nowadays. We would have loved
to sign him for lesser money of course
but it was in that moment not possible.
We need a striker. We only wanted to
have an an extra like an extra option
for striker like we had Bobby always the
best false nine in the world. Yeah. And
know we needed somebody with a bit more
speed and stuff like this. We need the
actions more and and Sio even sure if
Sio was still there. Probably not. So
>> Sio went that year.
>> Yeah, I think so went that year. So we
had to we had to change as well. So Luis
Diaz is great. Cody Gakpo great. What
kind of player we don't have? I thought
Cody can play a little bit like Bobby,
good football on the side, but feels
much better on the on the on the wing.
All these kind of things. So, yeah, of
course, we all signed him together. No
problem to to to admit that it maybe
didn't work out as good as it could, but
without Darin, so many things wouldn't
have happened. The biggest comeback of
all times at Newcastle, for example. Oh,
I love that day. I love that game. We
came on. Yeah.
>> Just give me 15 seconds to explain how
you can build a viable business online.
The people I see winning in life don't
have a perfect plan. They just take the
first step and then the next and then
they keep going. They stay obsessed and
they stay consistent. And Standtore, a
platform I co-own and one of our
sponsors is the best first step to help
turn your knowledge into income. It only
takes a couple of minutes to launch your
business and start selling digital
products, coaching, memberships, or
communities online without any tech
headaches or endless setup. Thousands of
entrepreneurs, creators, and risktakers
use Stan to take control of their
future. Because Stan is for
entrepreneurs, for those willing to put
in the work and bet on themselves. If
you're ready to start building, join us.
Launch your business today with a free
14-day trial at
stephvenbartlet.stan.store.
We launched these conversation cards and
they sold out. And we launched them
again and they sold out again. We
launched them again and they sold out
again because people love playing these
with colleagues at work, with friends at
home, and also with family. And we've
also got a big audience that use them as
journal prompts. Every single time a
guest comes on the diary of a CEO, they
leave a question for the next guest in
the diary. And I've sat here with some
of the most incredible people in the
world. And they've left all of these
questions in the diary. And I've ranked
them from one to three in terms of the
depth. one being a starter question. And
level three, if you look on the back
here, this is a level three, becomes a
much deeper question that builds even
more connection. If you turn the cards
over and you scan that QR code, you can
see who answered the card and watch the
video of them answering it in real time.
So, if you would like to get your hands
on some of these conversation cards, go
to the diary.com or look at the link in
the description below. Why did you
leave? Why did you leave Liverpool? I I
watched your videos
announcing your departure so many times
and I was almost trying to read between
the lines.
>> Oh,
>> I was trying to read between the lines.
>> Tell me what you read.
>> No, I was just, you know, cuz you talk
about just the energy, not having the
energy for it. That's kind of how I was
interpreting you. You know, you you sat
down with your board. Your board talked
about plans for next year and you
realized in that moment that
>> you didn't have the energy to rebuild
and go again, etc.
>> No, no, not to rebuild
that. We didn't have to rebuild. I I
know that the team is a good team. John,
my expectation of myself is I'm I I'm
I'm the energy giver to everybody in in
this environment. Like that's what I
what my if somebody struggle, come on,
you can have my don't need it. Let's go.
I have to be on top of absolute top of
my game to be the guy who deserves to be
the Liverpool manager. And that's what I
said when I said day when I feel huh I
know that anymore then I don't so that I
say okay let's wait until everybody sees
it and then they can give me the sec and
la all these kind of things I cannot do
it like that not after the time we had
together I realized I don't want to be
that after all the time we had together
I want I don't want to be the guy I
don't want to go on tour to USA but why
because was I loved it all every day so
it's then you realize I need a break,
whatever. I need to have something else.
And you cannot do that in that business.
You cannot say, "Ladies and gentlemen,
give me a year. See you later."
>> And it's just not like that. And I
really think we we we did what we had to
do to to to say what we felt and thought
in that moment. And was exactly like
that. I didn't have the energy to think
about what's what's next. I didn't want
to think about what's next. I just
wanted to to go. I was happy with
finishing the season. But then don't ask
me what can we do here, what can we do
there, what can it was all my
responsibility for all the time because
yes I don't decide money but all the
rest it was in my hands from a specific
moment on. COVID kicked in. No sporting
director Michael came after I after I
left. It was not there anymore and not
it was not because we had a problem or
whatever. Not at all. Um it was just
they wanted to find a leader for the for
the pack and founded with Michael and
and and Richard and Anna obviously now
working really close together. So that
what was the was the decision but there
was a time there was no Richard, no
Michael, no Julian Ward. So there was
just me sitting there um like on top of
all the the things and we had to win
football games but all the rest was on
my plate as well. It was an intense
time.
>> There wasn't a structure around you in
that regard.
>> Co changed a lot. I mean, people didn't
fly as much anymore. Um, the owners
didn't come that often over. It was like
budget calls were on the phone. Uh, more
or less. We brought in Jük, the Germans
for because we didn't have a sporting
director at that time. In fact, Julian
came back, but then um I don't even know
exactly why why he left again. So the
these kind of things that just happened
and the only guys who were always there
were we the coaches and the football
team. So they were just the normal stuff
over a day. So who was doing the
sporting director stuff?
>> Yeah us and together with in that one in
that one window with I think it was with
the German guy we brought over. I don't
even know if Julian Ward was still there
the lawyers the scouts. So, um,
>> do you think you could ever go back and
manage Liverpool again? Is that within
the realm of possibilities?
>> I said I will never coach another team,
a different team in in England. So, that
means if then it's Liverpool.
Yeah. So, yeah, theoretically it's
possible.
>> What would it take theoretically for you
to want to do that psychologically?
>> I don't I don't even know exactly. I
just there must be
I I love what I do right now. I don't
miss coaching. I don't I mean I do coach
but just different not not players. So
and I don't miss it. I don't miss
standing in the rain two and a half,
three hours. Um, and and I don't miss
going to press conference
four times, three times a week, having
12, 10, 12 interviews a week. I don't
miss that. I don't. So
I
don't miss being in the dressing room
like in a sense of that I didn't have it
often other I coach 180 something games
so I was in a dress room very very often
and I don't want to
die in a dressing room just because so
nice it smells so it's it's it's these
kind of things so but there might be
something I'm 58 that's from your
perspective old from other perspective
from the other side it's not that old
that means I could make the decision in
a few years. I don't know. Do I have to
make the decision today? I will not
coach again. But thank God I don't have
to do that. I can just see what future
brings. But now I'm involved in a
project I really love and I love the
people I'm working together with and the
clubs we are responsible for and the
countries the clubs are in. So I like
doing what I'm doing right now.
And in my mind,
only if I'm focused 100% on it, I can do
it really good. And that's what I always
wanted to do to do.
>> Those are the things you don't miss.
What do you miss?
>> Some sometimes people. So yeah,
sometimes I miss people. like
I I I I wish I so that's I don't miss a
dressing room as a dressing room but
sitting there in the restaurant with the
players and having a nice chat that it's
nice it was always nice when they were
just in a good mood. We won a lot of
games and so like there was often a very
good mood in in the building
and standing there hearing them laugh I
I still have virtual laugh in my ear for
example. Yes. this kind this part of the
of the job it is obviously
but that's for these players which I had
the last time it's now um do I miss it
in general with football players not
right now it's not like that but I there
is there's really not a lot to be honest
what I miss because I'm still
in the business I I I know most about so
the football part I don't miss because I
have it and the The thing is like don't
have to be outside. I'm not the guy in
the chair before a game and stuff like
this. No, I I honestly that's that's
probably the best. I don't miss
anything. That's how it is.
>> When I look at your career, minds of
Dortmund, Liverpool, you seem to always
be successful and it's it's extremely
rare. It's extremely rare and you seem
to always succeed with a lot of passion
and all those things. But my question is
I think about the audience we have which
are often business people, leaders,
CEOs. Is there anything else that we
haven't touched upon that is central to
your idea of getting the best out of a
group of people? We talked about being a
sort of bespoke leader, being the jigsaw
piece you need to be to get the best out
of a person. We talked about giving
everything. Is there anything else
that's really central to your philosophy
of leadership and management that you
think is important that we haven't
touched upon yet that young coaches
might be able to
create the best team
possible.
And I mean in an understandable team
like really there's there must be a
reason why this team wins and not the
other team because there are other teams
out there. They try absolutely
everything. So don't waste time with
walking next to each other, not knowing
anything about each other, not being
bothered about the problems of each
other, not being interested about each
other. No, no, no. I want to grow
together. And it was my job to help them
to grow to create situation where they
could do that to make sure and if I had
to be harsh to all of them that they
found a way to get together. I did that.
It was not what I said. It was what they
needed to understand why we are a very
special team in a very
hard and difficult competition. But we
have to find a reason why we deserve it
more than others. Yes. That's what I
what I say what you have to do and
that's what I people want to convince
today with knowledge they want to say I
know everything about that look I can
tell you I can explain it to you sir but
it's in the end that's one thing and
other people can know as well it's about
how close can we really grow together to
go out there and smash the whatever out
of them so that's the that's the the the
thing what what what I wanted to what I
always did so it was always
for us we would walk I don't know we
would go through fire I'm not sure if
you say that any but we really would do
absolutely everything and without me
telling every day to find it so to find
a way to grow as much together that was
obvious
>> how do I get people to walk through fire
so you're talking about making sure the
bonds amongst themselves are strong I
heard stories of you making sure
everybody knew everybody's name when you
first arrived and things like that
>> not players it was staff
>> the staff names etc
What were you doing to get people to
walk through fire?
>> And that's exactly that's exact that's a
good question. There's no answer for the
question because it means that would
mean you say you say one thing and well
everybody runs. That's not like that.
You have to create a culture an an
environment a situation uh a wbee where
everybody realize this is special. The
underlining message is this is special
and now let's go for it. This is worth
it. This it means really more to all of
us that we really can fight more for it.
>> What is special?
>> The togetherness. The way we we had we
we the way we and that people can say
that's in our club the same but the way
we interacted in the training ground
with the kitchen stuff with with the
respect we we showed every day with the
kidmen with the gardeners with all the
people there there. That was for me most
important because it just you just
realize that's the the respect you show
is the respect you get. You can show
respect you don't deserve any. So that's
how it is and you don't have it's not a
lesson in the sense of that I tell you
wait sit here. You have to respect the
gardener and then the other people will
respect you as well. It's a you don't do
it like that. It's just you learn that
show respect you get respect. Don't show
respect you don't deserve it. So all
these little things over there, there's
not a big thing. It's not that every day
I go for them and tell them why is this
different, why is that different. The
way you deal with situations, we found a
way for us
that the most important information
about the game was what I said and not
was in the media, not was in social
media. When I said it was good, it was
good. There was still all the things out
there were written but that were not
important anymore. When I said it was
not good, then could they write? Yeah,
but you won 3 and0 and then we found a
way to talk about it and and worked on
it. We created our own world in that
time which was more important than the
outside world.
>> How is not being respectful to the
gardener going to lose you the Champions
League? What is the the through line?
>> I believe just in if you cannot do that,
if you don't appreciate what thing what
what other people do, then you cannot
appreciate what your teammate is doing.
If you don't that's just a little sign.
It's not that of course there's not
direct impact from here to there, but in
the end I'm pretty sure if you would
really have a a brief look at it in one
or two situations
like
>> oh he doesn't look like a proper fella
and then you go back to to the to the
beginning would say yeah because he
isn't. I can tell you
>> I'm fascinated by this point because
when I was um when I was at Old Trafford
and the ladies who served the food in
the l in the boxes and lounges when I
would ask them what was different after
Fergie left the thing they kept saying
to me was oh it's just so different
around here and I'd say explain to me
how they go I don't know just he
Ferguson just knew our names. Yeah,
>> that's what they would say. And it's a
strange thing to hear that the only
symptom that some of the staff in the
stadium could point at was just the new
leadership don't know our names.
>> Yeah, but this is obviously not the
answer to the Man United problems.
That's just the situation with the the
ladies or whoever working in that in
that area. But it shows if that doesn't
then you don't know theoretically the
names. What it shows is the togetherness
is not there anymore. It starts already
with a sex was just different and then
you y but not on day one
>> but after 23 years of course he was
different of course he knew your name he
saw you growing up so how can you
compare that
>> this was under Edward just for the
context this wasn't under any am this
was before then a couple of years ago
>> and I just always found that to for me
that as a business leader became a
really interesting reference point
because it as you said it's just a
downstream symptom of something where
the club has gone from feeling like a
family and special and you know close
and tight and these values to the decay
of the values and it's and all the way
down to the the stream at the bottom
>> but this is this is a generation
discussion isn't it like in the past
again I'm not that old that I say in the
past everything was better for sure not
but we are differently
raised that's how it is I came home I
walked home in a 1,200 00 people
village. I had a 400 meter walk from the
bus station to my home. I walked home.
Obviously, a lady crossed my way. I
didn't can remember it. I arrived at
home after 200 m more meters. And then
my mom said, "Why you didn't say hello
to Mrs. and so uh
what?"
So that does does that help me in life?
I'm not sure. It's just how you get it's
just how you get raised. I didn't run
back and say sorry hello but next time
believe me it leaded so in my life where
everybody a lot of people recognize me
so difficult not to say hello to people
because of that but I start obviously
getting attention if I can't get through
something and I would say hello that
doesn't work properly for me anymore but
it's still in me one thing is the things
we read the other thing is the things we
feel the other thing is is the how we
get treated we all are the result of a
lot of things what happened to us and as
long as we are together let's make sure
that we influence each other as positive
as somehow possible and let's see where
it leads us to that's the idea I have
>> a lot of managers or leaders or CEOs
would focus on tactics and strategy
first and foremost and as you say the
information and all those things but it
appears that you focus somewhere else
>> not first same time it's not first it's
not same time it's it's same time I 24
hours a day, 2 hours time for training.
There's not a lot more you can do. Maybe
you have another in the preseason
definitely more another session 2 hours
4 hours 20 hours left 7 8 hours sleep 12
more hours. Welcome. What can we do with
that? That's become the best group we
can be. So that's I'm 100% interested
in. Definitely
>> the best group we can be.
>> Yeah.
>> That's those relationships, those
values.
>> Yeah. And were there any particular
changes you made to how the team
interacted with each other? I know that
um the Inos guys told me at Manchester
like they've changed the like canteen so
that people don't sit on separate tables
now and the team are together when they
eat. Just small things like this that
some people might think are
inconsequential. Are there any things
that you changed?
Any rules or policies?
>> I don't like these obvious things too
much.
If you don't like each other
and the size of the table makes no
difference to be honest. I don't say
that's not important. I don't I don't
see them the real effect. I I want to
reach it in a different way.
I want to to introduce them to each
other in a specific way on the pitch. By
the way, that's where it starts because
we are football team. we are not a
community and just sit there and drink
tea and and eat biscuits. It's a it's a
real competitive environment and it's
all to get the best out of the boys on
the football pitch. So,
rules, pitch, rules, dressing room, but
then there's so many things left and
right of the rules. There's so many
things you can do together. There's so
much to talk about, so much to know
about. And that's what life is.
Otherwise, we just live next to each
other and we don't benefit from each
other. That makes no sense. I don't want
to make it bigger than it is, but my
general understanding from football team
is to become the best football team you
can be. This is the this is as important
as tactics. As important as tactics.
They can have the best tactics and the
guys don't respect, don't like each
other, nobody will see them ever. Ever.
So, if the worst tactics, but they love
each other, boy, they still can win.
That's possible.
Isle world great team
good coach you have a good chance to be
successful
>> I have I have two pictures that we
haven't shown yet but this this
particular picture is of Elizabeth
>> mama
>> your mama
>> yeah
2011 we became champion with Dortmund my
home club as gladen invited me build a
stage
my elder sister wrote a poem.
My mom couldn't have been prouder.
Obviously,
uh that day I saw my teammates from my
first football team. They were all
there. Nobody would have thought that
somebody from there would arrive where I
was there.
Yeah, great day. Lisbet was a really
really nice woman, I have to say.
She she passed away in 2021 um after
falling ill because of everything that
was going on at the time with the
pandemic. You weren't able to attend her
funeral because of the travel
restrictions and all those kinds of
things.
She did get to see your your success.
She got to see that's a big difference.
So I was not in a funeral and that was
the the sounds crazy. The online funeral
was one of the saddest things I I
experienced in my life. Uh, but they
made it happen. At least that was good
that we could see it, that we could be
part of it. We couldn't be there.
My mom had in the end had dementia. So,
it's not that she would have known that
I was not there when she was lying
there. She was that that's a not a nice
thing, but she saw the maturity of
my working life if you want. My dad
didn't see my coaching life. So that's
is the there's no nothing is perfect.
But mom was was super happy was a very
happy lady until she
could remember us and see us and um
recognize us
and the time when he could when she
couldn't do that anymore. Yeah. Was not
too long. But that's a can't wait for
the day when somebody finds a solution
for these kind of things uh for these
kind of diseases and um
because in your age obviously don't
think about it but if you come older
they think who dies today just of a
heart attack and not by having already
dementia or or stuff like this and don't
recognize the kids anymore and stuff
like this. You don't want that.
You just can't get through this by
ignoring the fact and hoping that
science will find a way until we get
there.
>> Yeah.
>> She she started to lose her her memories
of her family because of dementia.
>> Yeah. So like the normal things on phone
she didn't know recognize my voice
first.
said that this is a this is a strange
strange disease or whatever how you will
call it. It closed so many doors and
opens others. It's a long time memory.
Incredible. She recognized ladies in the
street. They were together in primary
school stuff like this but didn't know
who we were. So just these kind of
things. It's not it's not a competition
of things you you forget or whatever.
There are a lot of things you forget and
especially for the people and that was
my sisters who took care of her
obviously that's not nice if she don't
recognize you who are you go away these
things how is that to deal how is that
to deal with as a family member when
someone you love a parent can no longer
recognize who you are you it's almost
like a it sounds like a grief heartbreak
>> yeah I think obviously my my sisters
were around um so For them was harder of
course because they were around. For me
it was not a problem at all because I
knew she loved me more than our own
life. In a moment she can recognize me
anymore that it was not a problem for
me. I just felt for her that is that is
really that it's really so that's so
hard. Must be so hard. If you have
bright moments where oh I know oh my god
you are here but what are you doing
here? and then going again. It's it's
really it's really not nice and I I I I
really sincerely hope that we find um
yeah medication for that. I think
science is in a yeah in a good way but
still a a long way to go but thanks for
this picture. I don't I have it on my
phone somewhere but I don't have it as a
yeah thank you very much.
>> Faith is a big part of your life as
well.
>> Yeah.
>> Your belief in God.
And from what I understood, that's not
always been the case. When you were a
younger man, you weren't
religious in the same way that you are
now. Is that accurate or
>> I won't even say I'm religious. I I
believe
>> but I don't but I don't know 100% what
religious means to be 100% honest. But
it's um this lady, my mom um prayed
every night before going to bed. But
problem
one thing we prayed the other thing she
said because she couldn't be hard with
me. She could she just had no weapons.
the only thing she could say, "Don't
forget if you do that again, I will have
to tell the dad at the weekend when he's
coming back." So, it was like the only
threat she had, the only weapon she she
carried around. Um, and I obviously was
smart enough to realize that whatever I
did, she never told my dad. Um,
um, from time that I went to church, I
had a a short spell where I thought
because Sunday morning church was when I
played games. I have to go to church.
I'm not I cannot play football anymore.
But that lasted exactly one game. So one
Sunday they thought God cannot be that
hard. He cannot think that I have to go
to church when I love football so much.
It cannot that's it cannot be like that.
Um and he isn't I'm pretty sure. So um
yeah I found my way. For me it's for me
it's
to live together. We have to make sure
that we that we don't think the only
thing what is interesting is my own
well-being. We have to make sure that we
really understand being alone in a good
position doesn't help. Yes, it's
completely normal that we all try
to get as far as we can in our career,
in our life and all these kind of
things. But it's really important that
we make sure that we that we really try
to to work properly together, to live
properly together and all these kind of
things. For me, this is my faith. It's
based on my this this
understanding is based on my faith. So
and and common sense obviously and
that's the way I believe and um I think
that's the best thing you can say about
religion when it's like that that it
keeps people
in a good place. If religion can't do
that then that's not the right religion
for me. So it's really about that we
have to be tolerant. We have to. It's no
problem. It's a wonderful planet. It's a
wonderful world we are living in. But
it's not for one or two. It's for all of
us. And we have to make sure that that
works out. And I think the right faith
can help you with that. But I don't I
don't know what is the right way. I only
know what is for me. So yeah, for me
it's the right thing to do. And I never
doubted it to be honest with all the
information you get over in life.
God is real for me and um and Jesus of
course. Um yeah.
>> What goals have you got left to
accomplish, Jurgen? What what's what is
left on your list, if anything at all?
Because you've got You're right. You're
probably halfway through your life, the
way things are going in terms of people,
the life expectancy increasing.
>> Halfway through 116. We have the next
podcast. Yeah.
>> I want to travel. That's what we're
doing. Start now. I want to be together
with Ola as much as we can. But not not
that much that she or I don't want to be
around each other anymore because I
really think you see people and think
what is your husband doing? Oh, he's at
home. Oh god. So no no no I'm not that
but I'm very busy. So I'm I'm a lot
away. So that's fine. But I want to
spend with her with the kids with the
grandkids. I don't have this kind of
ambitions. I want to do really well for
Red Bull. Really well. I I I feel
already responsible for all the people I
work together with. That's a
very interesting thing for me. I feel so
quick, really responsible, but I do so I
want to do it as good as we can have the
best time possible. Let's see what
happens then. But on a private basis, I
can tell you with all the things
happening around, stay healthy and enjoy
this part of life because you know now
most things happened and most things
were really good. There was another time
um your age when you are not sure where
you want to go where where can what's
possible how safe you will be um and all
these kind of things where will you live
in the future so I know where we will
live I know how things worked out that's
really good I'm not that old that I
cannot move so move
and try and do sports and travel and all
these kind of things so I I'm more than
happy with the things how they
how they panned out, how they happened.
I'm really really happy. I'm surprised
how my career was. I I never thought
that. And you cannot plan it and and
stuff like this. I'm super happy with my
private life, how it is. Super happy
with the Mrs. Super happy with the kids,
super happy with the grandkids. It's all
really good. So, what can you want more
really without sounding ridiculous that
you think, "Oh, you still want that."
and the rest is job. And the job I'd
always wanted to do as somehow possible
and that's still the case.
>> Is he a Man United fan?
>> Why?
>> I don't know. If you ever want a job at
a football club, Manchester United would
uh
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. After all the time we
spent together. Yeah. You want to tell
me that?
>> Yeah. No, but you know it's um it's
really it's really interesting to me
because I think there's always an
assumption that people want to continue
to I don't I don't understand that do
the same you because that's what you are
good at. I know I'm good as a manager. I
know so why should I I don't have to
prove that not even to me I have to
prove that I can raise my hand and
tomorrow I can coach club X Y and Zed
clubs who are happy now with sector
manager and I don't want that. So, so
but to be my best friend that might come
back that I say okay I'm ready that
might I don't know today but in this
moment it's not that I cannot do what I
do while thinking with one leg being
still there I was never like that I
never looked right or left when I was at
mines I could have changed the club
every year for the first seven it was so
obvious that something is going on there
pretty special that clubs want oh we
want to have him and I never thought a
second that I want to go there. I wanted
to stay at mines to to to do what we do
and to learn what I thought I have to
learn. Same at Dortmund, same at
Liverpool until I thought it's not
right. If that comes again, let's see
what we can what we will do. That's what
the decision I wanted. I want didn't
want to make the job until I barely can
move. I barely can travel. I barely Mrs.
Can you help me? I don't want I didn't
want to do that. Yeah, we're sitting and
yes, I'm 25 years older than you, but we
both could
probably run around the corner now and
it would not be the biggest difference.
>> You're in great shape.
>> Yeah, that's because I train. That's how
it is. But I never did while I was a
manager. That's the next thing. I just
grew more and more and more and now uh
we have time for that as well. No, it's
good how it is.
Well, you um even as a United fan, you
you brought so much to the Premier
League that it was it was weirdly sad
also very happy when you decided that
you were going to leave. I mean, I I
felt two feelings at the same time. I
felt very very happy that this was this
Liverpool era in my view was over
because I thought there's no way
>> you leaving. You're more than just a
manager. You're the spirit of this city.
You're the spirit of the fan base.
You're actually sort of personify the
Liverpool fan base in my mind. extremely
passionate allin togetherness and as you
know your former I think he was your
chairman or owner of mine said you did
you brought you brought the team
together you then brought the city
together and that had a profound impact
both on Liverpool but also on the
Premier League and on my enjoyment and
my misery as a rival fan and that's a
really really remarkable thing. You've
also inspired me as a lot on a personal
level as a leader just about you know
everything you said there about how
important it is to focus equally on the
people and the team and the togetherness
and not just on the tactics and the
strategy and how passion can be and a
wonderful accelerant for performance and
for feeling like this is special and
that's something that I think you've
personified as a leader. We um we have a
closing tradition on this podcast where
the last guest leaves a question for the
next guest not knowing who they're
leaving it for.
>> Oh.
>> And the question
>> Oh, it's for me, not a message.
>> Yes.
>> Oh,
>> question that's been left for you.
As you look back on your career,
is there a particular moment, a
particular conversation, a particular
day
that if you could you would go back and
change or say something you wish you had
said? I honestly the problem is
I would probably would say no. I don't I
wouldn't go back and and and try to
change it because it wouldn't have a big
impact. the situations we had,
the big situations I could influence
with the things I said, the specific
moments which were then decisive. You
just stand there and watch
Aguero in or not in we the same problem
with United where things the ball goes
in or the ball is over the line for 11
million or not. That has nothing to do
with what I say. Would I wish if I could
go there and give it a little push? Yes.
Would I wish James Madison would block
the shot of Vincent Kane that he cannot
score the goal against Leicester? Yes.
But it had nothing to do with what I
said. And so the things I said I said in
the moment for the right reasons. Um,
and sometimes they had the impact I
wished
and wanted and sometimes not.
>> Yeah, I had to accept that.
>> That was the other thing that um Jamie
Carrager asked. He said, "Oh, when you
see when you see ask him how he feels
about his former assistant manager, Pep
Lingers going and working
>> going and working at Manchester City."
>> Absolutely. No problem. I like it. I I
like both Peps. That's how it is. No
problem uh with that. Um I worked
together with Pep Blinders. He was an
inspiration for me every day when we
worked together. Absolutely every day. I
learned a lot from him. And Pep
Guardiola I couldn't respect a manager
more. Um and when they asked me like a
bit what do you think can we? Of course
you can. Pepinos I said come on find a
guy who worked together with Pep Liners
Pep Gardula and Jurgen club. I would
read the book.
Uh, and yeah, and Pep knew exactly Pep
um Gardula knew exactly what he was
looking for. Yeah, he wanted to, you
know, want exactly this kind of um
spark fire from and Pep has that. Pep is
Pep Lions has that. He is an extreme
well of of energy and um so I'm happy
for them both.
>> We're playing you guys. Um this week,
this weekend on Sunday.
>> What?
>> United.
>> Manchester United Liverpool this Sunday.
You didn't know.
>> It's at Anfield. It's a Premier League,
Dar.
>> That's crazy that you don't know.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> But hopefully after So this will come
out just after that. So I'm hoping
that's four losses.
>> Oh, we come after that.
>> When when do we get
>> hopefully the day after, but we'll see.
Um so hopefully this is your fourth
Liverpool's fourth loss in a row. And uh
the fan base are growing increasingly
impatient and they're annoyed and Amarim
has now won another another game in a
row. So this is this conversation will
come out straight after.
>> Wow.
>> Now we playing at Anfield.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Good luck.
>> They have to strike back. Yeah. You know
that's never a good situation.
>> Yeah.
>> You know that two days ago. So I just in
the morning I wake up pretty early in
the morning. So I I I throw on YouTube
and have a look and then it shows me
behind the scenes footage from the 7.
>> The 7? Oh gosh.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I never saw that.
I never saw it but it's like the 7.
Obviously I know the goals and stuff but
it's the camera different. It's in the
stands and it's really good. So okay
fine. I watch it 19 minutes really good.
So all the goals again and you see
players in the dressing room all the way
to the dress room. Really good. The next
day I I open and because I you know how
it is with the algorithm now I see the
5-nil at at Manchester. So and I watch
that and today I come here and had no
clue that you are Manchester United fan.
So I I was really well prepared for that
talk I have to say
without knowing. Yeah.
>> Damn. Yeah. Thank you so much Jagen.
Thank you for taking the time. Thank you
for being an inspiration to me, but also
thank you for all that you brought to
the Northwest and to Liverpool.
>> Sure. Thanks. Welcome. It was my
pleasure.
>> Honestly, thank you so much. And I I'
I've learned so much from you as a
leader and also as a man. And in the
leadup to this, I spoke to so many
people around you that have worked with
you. I contacted Jordan Henderson. I
spoke to um Carrager, who knows you
through various people. I think he
managed him for one game, he said.
>> Yeah. Yeah. In Australia.
>> In the Australia game. And they all said
the same thing. They all said that
you're the same man on and off the
camera. You're a person that brings
people together. you're extremely
likable, but you have high standards and
are an incredibly passionate person. And
that the the narrative was consistently
here is the same man on and off camera.
Um, which is a credit to yourself and no
wonder why people were willing to walk
through fire with you.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, it's it's incredible what you've
accomplished and I hope selfishly as a
football fan, I hope we we see you back
in the game at some point.
>> Maybe Real Madrid or Manchester United,
you know, whatever.
>> You never know. You never know.
>> Thank you so much.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]